# rtt lecture - Yoga and Technology

Yoga and technology. So something that is not often discussed in relation to yoga and the wider practice of tantra is technology. And this is really interesting because in ancient India and in medieval India, there was quite an explicit connection between yoga and technology. In fact, yantra magic, which is a core of tantra, and yoga, by extension, is based upon the idea of the machine. So a yantra is a machine. It is a machine that brings you to altered consciousness. And it is one of the first examples of an external physical mechanism that is utilized as part of a yogic practice in order to reach a specific end or to engage in an activity that induces altered consciousness. So technology has always been an important part of yoga. The question is, how essential is the relationship between the yogin and technology? And I would argue that since tantra is based on the principle of exploring consciousness from a material foundation, and since technology is an essential aspect of the created world, of the material form, then there is an absolute connection between yoga and technology. And to ignore this connection would be to reduce your ability to access certain tools as well as certain relational aspects that would greatly enhance your practice. Now, in order to understand how yoga and technology have developed over time in regards to the relationship between these two elements, we have to begin with the recorded history of yoga from its earliest known foundation until today. So yoga has always had an explicit connection to civilization, and this is seen in certain aspects of Tantra, like the caste system. Caste has always been important aspect of Tantric texts. So in relating to civilization, the yogin identifies how consciousness is expressed within the castes, and the yogin finds their own place within the caste. It's not necessary for the yogin to be a Brahman. Now, of course, there is historically a large population of yogins within the Brahmin caste, but there are yogins at every level of society, and there are even yogins who are untouchables. And in fact, a large section of Tantrics are untouchables because they exist outside of the framework of acceptable society, especially those who practice vamashara. So awareness of the social order has always been an essential aspect of yoga and Tantra. And of course, civilization advances alongside technology. So consider this in a very primitive culture that is tribalistic, the importance of technology, it is present, but there's not a domination of technology over society. Technology is something that is integrated and plays an important role, especially in early forms of agriculture and hunting and gathering. It is important, but it's not something that permeates the culture. So, of course, you can practice yoga within a tribal setting. Tantra and yoga are applicable in every civilizational setting. And within this framework of tribal culture, there is less of a need to consider the impact of technology on the practice. So an easy example of this, and I've been giving this example in other talks, is that when you are in a hunter gatherer culture and you are going into the wilderness and you're in search of your prey, there is a need to be aware of the diversity of your surroundings. Because if you're not open to the free flow of stimuli, you're going to be caught off guard, you're not going to be as effective of a hunter. You have to be aware of the subtle signs of movement activity in the forest. You have to adjust your sight to the changing distances, to the changing terrain. And so this acts as a natural form of trataka. So individuals who exist in these hunter gatherer societies, that they are not impacted by some of the negative aspects of technology in the same manner as modern man. Now when I say modern man in this context, what I'm speaking of specifically are those individuals who exist within a modern civilizational framework and have the typical interaction with modern technology. And this would be modern man. So let's contrast the hunter gatherer man with modern man. The hunter gatherer, he is in a natural state of trataka when he is in search of his food, whereas the modern man is in a state of one pointedness. Because the mechanization that occurred post industrial revolution created the conditions where most workers had to place their focus in a singular activity in an environment that is not varied like the wilderness. The lack of the chaotic aspect of the wilderness changed the way that most people experience reality on a daily basis. And as a result of this, suddenly people fell into this one pointed state, the kriya free flow state that you would achieve from practicing trataka or existing in the wilderness was ripped away from the average person. Not just the average person, but almost everyone in society. So if the kriya state of free flowing meditation is not ingrained in your culture, how do you access that state? You access it through practices that are integrated into your life outside of the mundane conditions of society. And this is where yoga comes, comes into play. So with the advancement of the Vedic civilization and the growing reliance upon technology, it became very obvious to the early yogins of India that there were certain negative influences creating conditions of decadence within the culture. And in order for those yogins to escape these conditions of decadence, they had to shape their lives around practices that would keep them healthy in body in inner fire, in mind and spirit. And this is where the historical development of yoga begins. It begins with this recognition of the need for these practices. Now, history is cyclical, and the these yogic practices, these tantric practices, they are perennial. So we wouldn't say that yoga developed as a result of the advancement of civilization. Yoga and tantra are ingrained in the civilizational cycle. So these practices have always existed, even if they did not exist under the same name. They are present as part of the cosmos. But if we are bringing our awareness to the progression of technology over time and its influence on the human condition, then we have to recognize that the growth of technology certainly played a very important role in the development of the tantras and in the development of many of the meditative exercises that laid the groundwork for what we are practicing in the present age. And so, obviously, civilization is something that can be a great medicine or a great poison, like all things. So the early yogins did not view the development of technology or the development of civilization as something that is inherently negative. They simply recognized that certain structures should be put into place in the life of the individual as well as within the wider social order, so that the poisonous effects of technology could be minimized and the medicinal effects of the modern technological advancement of civilization could be emphasized. The issue here is that even if the yogins are able to develop this healthy will to power in their own life and segregate themselves away from the negative influence of technology, most people do not practice yoga. So how is it that we create the social conditions that allow for the emphasis of the medicinal aspects of technology? Well, the Tantrics in medieval India wrote very important texts regarding statecraft. And statecraft was itself an aspect of tantra, as was economics. So in addressing political economy, these tantrics developed a way of understanding how to create a yogic condition in the mass population. And these texts are still available. You can still read these texts. Some of them have been translated to English. But these texts are very important because what has occurred in modern philosophy and political science is the development of very intense political dogma. And there is an inflexibility in political science in the modern age, beginning with the ancient Greeks and moving forward, that has disallowed for any sort of yogic condition in the formation of society. There have been certain individuals who have come along from time to time who have said things like the state should be arranged according to the needs of the state and the people. And so ideology is just a very loose framework to describe the necessity of movement in the state. And of course, this is what the Tantrics were getting at whenever they developed this yogic statecraft. The idea that society should be treated like an organism, and the way that you create health in the body of the individual, you must also take this approach in the social body. And technology plays a very important role, of course, in the social body. Just as the individual yogin would assess the conditions of technology in their own home and decide whether or not that technology is empowering them or undermining their power, these yogins would also examine the wider culture, and they would see what kind of impact technology is happening on the base stock, the Shudra, as well as the Vaishya, the Kshatriya, and the Brahman. And applying effective statecraft, these yogins would then make the necessary adjustments to keep technology in its healthy place. But as I said, modern political economy and modern political science does not allow for this kind of flexible approach. It is purely ideological. You are a communist, you are a capitalist, you are a national socialist, you are a fascist. Whatever ideology you ascribe to this, this is the stamp that you place on society, and it is what you uphold for as long as possible. And of course, this creates conditions for revolution. And the Tantrics who were involved in this yogic statecraft were highly aware of the necessity for revolution, but they did not believe that bloody, violent revolution was always necessary. Of course, sometimes it was necessary. But if your society is based upon the principles of flexibility in developing a healthy relationship between the people and the state, then the state is able to reach a condition of balance as part of the general philosophy that fuels the life of the state. Of course, if you have a state that is founded by capitalists, and these are hardline ideological capitalists who uphold a sort of religious dogma in the continuance of their ideology, then at some point when that civilization becomes decadent, there is no avenue for the kind of flexible turning up of the civilization that you would have if the Tantric approach was applied. And so a revolutionary underground forms and you have bloody, violent revolution. The same goes for a civilization that begins in communism. At some point, the communism becomes decadent. People demand more economic freedom, personal freedom, and once again, you have a violent revolution. Now, I mention all of this because the relationship that people in every culture, the relationship that these people have to technology, is highly ideological. There is not an awareness of social flexibility in relation to technology. You have the industrialists who believe in the constant advancement of technology, damn the consequences, or these industrialists believe that there will only be good consequences from technology. Or the negative consequences will be so minor that it's not even worth considering the consequences. I think Elon Musk is a good example of someone like that, who is just such an intense industrialist that he is obsessed with the idea, the advancement of technology and its social good. Then you have those who believe in the absolute evil of technology, and they believe that the poisonous aspects of technology are so great that you could not possibly build a civilization with any sort of advanced technology that can express a healthy social body. An example of that would be someone like Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, who believed that technology has an inherent poisonous quality. And in order to preserve the life of humanity and civilization at a very primitive state, you must destroy technology, draw it down to a minimal. There are some anarcho primitivists who are such intense enemies of technology that they would say that even symbolic speech has gone too far and that this speech is so poisonous it uproots us from our happy foundation in primitive tribal culture. So you have a wide variety of ideologies, the extreme industrialists, the primitivists, and everything in between. But very few people are discussing the flexible aspect of technology. Yes, there might be some moderates who will say, oh, there's good things about technology and there's bad things about technology, and it's really how you use it. Well, that's sort of like this common sense, not very fleshed out expression of what the Tantrics expressed, that technology has value or it has no value, depending upon how it is employed. The problem is because political economy has become so rigid in its ideological foundation, technology, which is an important part of the economy and it's an important part of the political system, all drawn up. It's all drawn up into this ideology. And so there is not much room for nuance. There's certainly not much room for the type of flexibility that we would find in the Tantric text regarding statecraft. So what are we left with? We are left with a situation where technology becomes a tool of special interests who utilize technology and perception regarding technology as a means of manipulating the population. And this really ramped up with the Industrial Revolution, because with the Industrial Revolution came mass propaganda on a scale never before seen. The people of the countryside were convinced en masse to abandon the life that they lived and enter into a new dimension. And that's what it was, a new realm of life where the simplicity of the countryside was abandoned for the confinement of the factory. And of course, this kind of radical change in the life of common man required a lot of convincing. Convincing from the church, convincing from the state, from the media. And it worked. And people were willing to abandon the conditions of the countryside because for the longest time, the state had made it almost unbearable to exist in the working conditions of the countryside, continuously ramping up the hours required to work, manipulating the economy, applying usury in the. In the population of Europe, the United States, all over the world, so that these conditions of political economy became law. They became the rule, the de facto power center. And in this power center, it was very difficult for anyone to argue with the smokestacks blowing black smoke across the city. It was difficult to argue with the fact that children were being sent up into chimneys to sweep them out and be covered with soot. It was very difficult to argue with the disgusting filth filling the cities and all of the disease that was carried along with that and all the degradation of life that resulted from the Industrial Revolution. It was very hard to argue because the industrialists, they controlled political power, they controlled the economy, they were in alignment with the users. And so the entire system was directed towards the embrace of the new God, the God of progress, the God of endless technological development. Without question. Now, this period of the Industrial revolution created a great scar in the psyche of the public. And I would even argue that the beginning of the Industrial Revolution is sort of like the tipping point where the age of the Vishudi started to march towards the age of the Ajna. Because things changed so rapidly that the conditions of society from decade to decade were totally alien to the conditions of the previous generation. You could be born in one generation, and by the time your grandchildren, by the time your grandchildren were born, the world could be so radically different, you'd think you were on a different planet. So this kind of shift in the conditions of culture had a great impact on the mind and the spirit of people all throughout the globe, especially in the west, where this technological development was at its greatest fever pitch. Now, of course, it's no surprise that this technological development and this obsession with progress was emphasized so strongly in the west, because white Europeans are a Sahasra racial body. And so their connection has always been to technology and to ascension. If you think about those who evolved in the frozen north, you had to have a certain ingenuity and a mind and an awareness and a spirit towards the sky in order for you to be able to survive. And so the Sahasra racial body of white Europeans became very reliant upon technology. If not for technology, these Europeans could not have thrived within those conditions that they were born into. And so there was a strong impetus placed on technological development. And so in those parts of the world where white Europeans were majority or remain a majority, this is where we see the greatest technological advancement still to this day. And this is actually totally in alignment with the kind of father cult, divine masculinity, ascend towards the stars expression that is inherent in the Sahasra. So these individuals, their connection to that which is beyond the mind was ramped up by the changing conditions of society. Now where does yoga fit into this development? Well, yoga in India always develops in relation to the conditions, material conditions. And it's really the same in the west as well. But the question is, are the yogic practices being defined by the technological civilization, or are they being defined by the yogins who are seeking liberation from that civilization? And for the most part, that which is called yoga in the west, the typical asana practice you would find at virtually every yoga studio in the United States, in the uk, Germany, in all these places, this is a practice that is defined by political economy, it is a merchant practice, and it is not at all in alignment with any sort of serious liberation. It is defined by the advancement of the technical culture. And these practices do not offer the average person an escape from the conditions of the poisonous aspects of technology. In fact, the entire esoteric culture of the west has been permeated with this terrible paranoia, this paranoia concerning the relationship between man, the physical world and technology. And this paranoia has resulted from the Industrial Revolution and all the damage that came about as a result of the suffering that people experienced in those factories, in those dirty cities. So it doesn't matter much that great strides have been made in the advancement of clean technology, in the creation of new forms of technology that can be integrated in a healthy way into the life of the average person. The fact is, there is a great psychological, spiritual trauma from the Industrial Revolution that has not been reconciled. And the conditions of political economy within the west, they remain influenced by this endless march of progression, which, as I have said in the past, began with the Abrahamic Revolution and was worsened greatly by the Protestant revolution. Because the Protestant work ethic is the foundation of this technological advancement. This progression that ramps up from year to year continues to go faster and faster. People having to work harder, run to and fro, and never have time for self reflection. This is a result of that progression. And so the relationship that individuals in the culture have to technology, it's not influenced by dharmic statecraft, it's not influenced by tantrics, it's influenced by the decadence of the Abrahamic revolution and the consequences of that revolution, which is this endless industrialization. Now I want to take a moment to discuss the nature of the Ajna and the Svadhisthana as it relates to this condition. The Ajna and the Svadhisthana are home to a specific manifestation of hypochondria. From the position of the Svadhistana, you can become so aware of the sensuous aspect of the natural world in the Svadhisthana, and you can become so rigid in your assessment of those conditions that you paralyze your own body. You are paralyzed by the need for physical purity. This is a sort of cosmic germaphobia. And I'm not just talking about germs, but I mean, you're paralyzed by the social conditions around you. You become paralyzed by your interpersonal relationships. You become paralyzed by anything that does not meet a standard of expression of the Svada Sthana that is so rigid and without recognition of the chaotic element that you can barely escape it. This is a condition that many people are living under now. But there's another end to this. There is the Ajna hypochondria. This is the kind of thing that people experience when they take up a narrative that is designed to scare them, to make them feel like there is a spiritual poison. And the thing is, there is a constant communication between the Ajna and the Svadhisthana. So you might be sold a narrative like, let's say if you touch white paint, if there's white paint on the wall, on it, on a desk, it's going to give you cancer. If this narrative is repeated often enough in channels that you trust, it creates fear, great cosmic horror. And so you begin to manifest in a sort of subtle hypochondria, conditions of illness or imagined illness, where if you touch white paint, you feel sick. You go to great lengths to avoid white paint. You tell others about the dangers of white paint. Now, here's the problem with this. It doesn't matter if there are studies that back up this fear of white paint. If you are part of a community that advances this narrative, it becomes your reality. Perception becomes reality. And so if someone brings to you a study or a series of studies which demonstrates that there is no threat from white paint, or, you know, if there is a threat, it's so miniscule it can't even be measured. That won't matter if the Ajna is active enough and enough power is given to the narrative, and you're in a community that supports that narrative. You can say, well, I don't care what that study has to say, because I know someone who touched white paint and they got cancer. I know many people who touched white paint and they got cancer. It's the same with the Svadhistana. Communities are developed in order to advance certain esthetics. For example, they'll say that women lose all of their value after the age of 35. And is this true? Well, if it's your perception, then yes, it becomes true. Suddenly you begin to view every woman over the age of 35 as having no value. And if you're in a community of people who are supporting this idea, then you're going to take it up and you're going to defend it. And it doesn't matter if you come across a person or an entire population of people where a man has a healthy relationship, a very happy relationship with a woman above the age of 35, because you yourself, you belong in a community of men who have bad relationships. They've had. They've been burned by women who are over the age of 35, or women who are younger when they burn that person. But now they're holding a grudge, and that woman is now older, and they can now point to her and say, no, you don't have value anymore because you're over this age. And if you're in that community, if you're in this echo chamber and everyone is repeating this idea, then it influences the spirit of the material. Yes, it's true that there are some men who got burned by a woman who is over the age of 35. And so they're angry now, and they get into this environment where they can support this idea in others and others can support this idea in them. And it changes the whole spirit, the way that people perceive these women. And this happens all the time in so many different ways. And why is it so easy for people to be manipulated in this way? It's because people lack grounding in the muladhara and in the vishudi. Those are the two major grounding points in the body. If you are developing hypochondria in the svadhisthana and you have imagined all of these terrible conditions around you, how can you know whether or not these conditions are real? You have to ground yourself in the muladhara. That is the test for the svadhisthana. There is a communication between those two points. How do you know whether or not the fears that you've developed in this hypochondria and the ajna whether it's justified or not, you have to ground yourself in the Vishudi. You have to test your narratives with the mind. The problem is people were so abused by the conditions of the Vishudi culture for so long that they're sick of listening to scientists. They don't want to hear what a scientist has to say. And people have been so abused in their bodies and told not to trust their bodies and so separated from race that they can't ground themselves in the Muladhara. Both the mind and the blood body have been degraded for centuries now primarily by Abrahamism and everything that developed from it. But these things have been degraded. So I can, for example, show someone a study which says that Bluetooth headphones, they operate on non ionizing radiation. And this radiation is, has never been shown to have any sort of negative effect on human beings. But that doesn't matter, because if someone believes that the Bluetooth is going to cause a health effect, it can cause a health effect. They can generate that health effect. And so it doesn't matter too, because all of these scientific communities, they have abused their power. They have advanced studies which are total bullshit, which are designed to convince people of the safety of things that really aren't safe. And that's happened many times. Now, I personally do not fear the Bluetooth headphones that I'm using because I've looked at the studies and in my personal opinion, I believe that, that I'm safe from that form of radiation. But, you know, someone else might disagree, and that's fine. The thing is, we have to, when we're making these assessments, take the time to compare what we are feeling in the spirit with what we know in the mind, what we are feeling in the sensuous aspect with the actual physical reality around us. And in doing that, we are applying yoga in separating ourselves from the propaganda that is advanced by all of these ideologues who want us to agree with their political ideology. Because like I said, there is an explicit connection between technological development, civilization and political economy. And all of this is ideological. Now, how can you use yoga practically to ensure that you are not going to be negatively influenced by these ideologies? And then, of course, how can you use yoga to integrate technology in a healthy way? Well, first you have to separate yourself from political ideology. Politics can be an important part of your life, but ideological dogma is not a pathway to Dharma. You can subscribe to an ideology that you find value in, but it has to be part of a wider framework that incorporates the spirit and emotional Centers and the physical body, the mind, everything, the heart, everything needs to be considered. And so in this way, what you're really doing is you're applying that kind of tantric statecraft in order to understand what works for my community at this given time. It's not based upon dogma, it's based upon an assessment of conditions that allows me to reach a dharmic understanding of political culture. So exposing yourself to ideology that you do not agree with, exposing yourself to your own ideology and detaching from the emotional aspects of it, the aspects that are being pitched as logic and reason, but might be totally divorced from everything outside of this ideological matrix. And therefore it doesn't provide much explanatory power outside of political mental masturbation. All of these things. You have to take the time to develop that kriya state in your awareness of political culture. And most of us are so ingrained in political culture that really what we need is a long period of anti political life, of becoming apolitical, where we draw ourselves away from all the chatter surrounding the political culture and we focus on our own development. So that's one thing you can do, you can separate yourself entirely from the political culture. Now, I'm going to talk more about that in the future, but the focus of tonight's talk is specifically technology. So while it is a prerequisite to remove yourself from the propaganda that can influence your perception of reality and draw you away from a healthy integration of technology, the main focus is on how can we use technology. We can use technology by assessing whether or not each form of technology we engage with is empowering or if it is undermining our power. Right now, I am greatly empowered by the fact that I can give this lecture over the Internet and I can post the replay of this lecture and people have access to it. I can communicate with people all over the world. I can teach people all over the world because of technology. And I'm very thankful for that. I'm also thankful for all of the beautiful things that technology has brought to me in other areas of my life. I like being able to watch silly YouTube videos with my wife. I like being able to listen to music, recorded music, things like that. I like being able to get tattooed with a tattoo gun. I like. There's so many things I love about technology now, of course, all the things that I mentioned, if they're not an indulgence, if they're a compulsion, they can undermine my power. For example, I could become addicted to the Internet. I could become addicted to social media. And I can spend all day scrolling through Instagram and not take any time to do other things to show that I. To show other people that I care about them, to do things for other people. I can become internalized in this way. And a lot of people do become internalized. Now, of course, there are people who use social media to socialize with others, and that can be a way to break that. But many people become very consumed in the self as a result of social media. That's a major problem, and that has to be addressed. Well, how do you address that? You address it the same way you would address anything else. You find the compulsion and you apply the necessary yogic method to address that compulsion. Now, I'm not going to go into specific methods in this talk on how to address every single compulsion that arises as a result of interacting with technology, because we would be here, well, for the rest of our lives. But I will give a general overview of the strategy that must be applied. Like I said, if you identify a compulsion with technology, that's a problem. Also, technology can weaken us by making life too easy. So if you realize that your physical foundation is crumbling, or your mental foundation is crumbling, or your emotions or whatever, you need to stop and look around and think, is life too easy for me? Because decadence is the great destroyer of dharma. Decadence is the reason why every grand dharmic civilization has fallen. And so decadence in your own life will be your undoing. So you need to think, am I being too easy on myself? Am I not exposing myself to necessary suffering in order to keep myself strong and to grow in strength? Technology is probably the greatest poison in the advancement of decadence. Because if you are existing without modern technology, either you work very hard to survive or you die. But many people can be kept alive with minimal effort as a result of modern technology. Now, I want to be clear that there's another end to this, and that's the fact that people work more now than they have at any other time in human history. And the reason why they work so much is because of modern technology. It's allowed for the advancement of conditions in civilization where people can be placed in an environment where they can work all day long. And social engineers have figured out the best way to arrange the political economy so that these individuals can work, work, work, work, work, and be on the verge of dropping dead, but not actually drop dead. So it may be that your life is actually too difficult as a result of modern technology, but that's up for you to assess and determine, or it's up to you to go to a guru who can then give you instruction as to whether or not your life is being poisoned by the conditions of technology that surround you. So you have to be very careful of this. If you are extremely overweight, for example. Well, obesity is facilitated by the rise in modern technology. And you need to work out, you need to exercise to keep yourself fit. It's really hard to be fat when you are living in a primitive culture. It's very easy to be fat in a technologically advanced society. So this is why yoga develops along with civilization to allow people to have a practice that keeps them healthy, the foundation of health and yoga is the physical body. So if your physical body is suffering, you need to utilize hatha yoga, active yoga, physical yoga, to bring yourself to a state where your body is healthy. And you can do that in many different ways. You can run, you can. You can lift weights, you can practice asana. Whatever it is, you have to do this, otherwise technology will destroy you. And then you have the collapse of the mind. Because people are exposed to things like social media. They're exposed to the media in general. And this has a definite impact on the psyche. So you need to be careful as to how technology is influencing your mind. Maybe you're staring off into imaginary worlds on your phone or on a computer or on a TV screen for too long and you're losing touch with reality. That's when you need to go outside and you need to ground yourself. You need to get out into nature. You need to get yourself away from the screen. There's a lot of people who, in pursuit of pleasure, they find themselves stuck in this loop where they're addicted to the fantasy world. And they don't want to turn their awareness to the outside world because they consider it to be inferior to the fantasy world. Well, they become a slave to that fantasy world after a while, and so they lose the ability to see the beauty that they can find in the outside world. And at that point, they have been neutralized. The system has totally neutralized that person. That person will not fight for the beauty outside the system because they're on a pleasure drip. It's the brave new world pleasure drip. They've been plugged right into a fantasy world, and the dopamine will be pumped in until, you know, they are just the shell of a human being. So you need to practice things in yoga that will take you away from that technology. Okay, so so far I focused on how do you get away from technology and, and keep yourself healthy, but you can also utilize technology. Like I said the yantra, it's a machine. It is technology and yoga. Everyone who is attending this lecture right now is benefiting from technology in a yogic sense. This is satsang. Right now, what we're doing, you are engaging in satsang. You are listening to guru speak on a yogic topic. And you wouldn't have access to this. Most of you wouldn't have access to anything like this in your immediate environment. So thanks to technology, we can all experience this together as one. So that's a perfect example right there. You can also have access to guided meditations thanks to technology from wherever you're at. You have access to instructional guides on how to practice yoga thanks to technology. Also, from a physical standpoint, there has been such an incredible development in exercise technology, and we all can benefit from that. We can take advantage of machinery that has been constructed to help us with exercise. We can take advantage of certain clothing that we can wear so we can exercise in different conditions. I can go out and run in freezing cold weather for a longer period of time and keep my cardio up better through the winter because of technology. So I'm very thankful for that. And technology doesn't have to be limiting at all. In my life, I can always find a way to integrate technology if I look, if I embrace the potential. Now, one last thing we must consider is the social implications of technology and how we can use yoga to change that. So obviously technology is having a really negative impact on the masses. This is a major problem. But we can change that. For example, if you don't like the media, become the media. That's what I'm doing with this school. That's what we're doing with Dahmer vision. And anyone can participate in this. You all have a platform, you all have a voice. Thanks to technology, there has been a democratization of the media. And so anyone can advance a new idea, a piece of art that can be transformative in the lives of others. And we all should be doing that. If we want to create a dharmic society, then we all should be doing that in our own way. And there is someone, groups of people, people you wouldn't even imagine who will benefit from what you produce. But you just have to do it. You have to go out and make it. And you have to have faith and confidence that what you are going to produce is worth doing. Even if it takes years for anyone to pay attention, someone will. And that's transformative, being able to transform one person's life. Is more than any vote you can cast in an election. It's more than any political ideology that you can ascribe to. It's really incredible to be able to do this and to do it with your own expression, because we all have an expression that's going to be meaningful to someone else some way. And we can reach every level of society if we all apply our gifts and our talents and our power to its fullest extent. And then we will have a revolution. We will have a revolution of the way that people see technology and use technology. And eventually we can get to a point where we can apply those principles of tantric dharmic statecraft, the creation of a truly beautiful civilization.