# rtt lecture - Yantra Theory and Practice

The yantra. Most people who have explored tantra and yoga at any level have encountered the yantra. It is one of the most powerful symbols within the Indian tradition, and it has expanded into other traditions as well. We find the yantra commonly utilized in Vajrayana Buddhism. We find aspects of yantra all over the globe. And yantra has developed for a very long time. So of course, we recognize cyclical time within tantra. And we would say that the yantra is an object that is perennial. It has come in many forms and it has been expressed in many cultures. Tonight we are going to discuss the theory of yantra and we're going to talk about what exactly a yantra is and how to utilize it. Now, I'm going to make reference to some specific yantras tonight, but this is not an in depth exploration of singular yantras, because I could spend an entire hour talking about each individual yantra, that is, how significant these symbols can be. My goal tonight is to give you all a clear understanding of how yantras are utilized in a yoga practice. Okay, so let's get started. What exactly is a yantra? Yantras. In the simplest form, they are visual representations of an aspect of consciousness that are utilized in a yoga practice in order to achieve some karmic outcome. That is the simplest definition of the yantra. Now, most people who have come across yantras, they have seen very specific representations of this visual form of yoga. For example, many people have seen the Sri Yantra. And the Sri Yantra is a very typical representation of what you would call yantra within the Indian tradition. So let's think on the Sri Yantra. It is a geometric figure that has a box outlining it. And that box has these four protruding elements. And in the center of this box we find this beautiful design of mini triangles pointing up and pointing down and connecting to form this mesmerizing shape. And this is the Sri Yantra. We also have the aspect of the lotus within the yantra. Now, I say this is typical because most of the yantras or what are called yantras that you will encounter in the Indian tradition have these elements. They have the outer box which represents many different things. I'm going to give the general interpretation, but I want to make it clear that this is not the only interpretation of the yantra. And in fact, by their very nature, the yantras are open to very flexible interpretation. In fact, so flexible that you can perceive anything, anything from observing the tantra. And you would be correct in your observation, because the Idea behind the yantra is that it is a vehicle to altered consciousness and the experience of something that carries karmic significance. So with the Sri Yantra, we have the outer box. The common interpretation is that this box, this framework, represents the earth. So it is like the earth yantra itself in its pure form, it is the square. And the earth yantra in its purest form is typically represented by a yellow square. So we have the square representing the earth. And then we have these four purest protruding aspects. Okay, they look a little bit like prongs sticking out from the box. These four protrusions are doorways in the common interpretation, and they represent the four cardinal directions. Now, this is very important because in the common interpretation, the four cardinal directions are elemental. Now, this is an occulted aspect that I'm going to reveal. The four cardinal directions have an elemental aspect that corresponds to a specific point on the body, a specific manifestation of consciousness. We have the northern door, which represents spirit or water. So this is the spiritual aspect of the Sahasra. Then we have the eastern door. The eastern door represents fire, the manipura, the creative expression of the inner fire in the belly, we have the western door. And the western door represents mind, air. And then we have the southern door. The southern door represents the muladhara, the earth in its purest blood manifestation. Okay. Now, the reason why all of these doors are protruding from the earth, including the muladhara, is because all of the yantras are drawn in reference to the present Yuga. We live in the Kali Yuga, where the material foundation is prime. So in the Tantric tradition, excuse me, we are utilizing the material foundation of the earth in order to explore consciousness. And so when we access the southern door, this is not a redundancy. It's important that we distinguish between the material foundation of consciousness in the Kali Yuga and the materiality of the material world as a lens of perception. So that's a very complex idea, but I'm going to try to simplify it. Now, when you perceive materiality, I've created a system for illustrating this. So you'll have to imagine listening to this, what this would look like. But basically, you take a series of colored squares, and each color represents a different chakra. And so for the earth, for materiality, we have the muladhara, which is represented by a red square. So you would take that red square and you would set it down. And then if you wanted to perceive the muladhara from a foundation of shakti, you would place another red square on top of that. Square. So we have a twofold expression of materiality. All right? So that first red square represents the foundational consciousness in the Age of Shakti and in the Kali Yuga, the Muladhara, as the earth yantra. Then if we wanted to perceive the southern gate, the southern door through that element, we would place another red square on top, and that would be perceiving the materiality of the southern doorway from the conscious foundation of the Earth yantra. Now, let's take another approach. Let's say that we wanted to perceive the northern door. So we would take a white square representing the Sahasra. We would take the foundation, the red square, place it, and then put the white square on top. So now we have the red square as our foundation of consciousness of the Kali Yuga materiality, and then we are perceiving the spirit from that foundation of materiality. So this is how you can visualize and perceive with some degree of simplicity, the lens of consciousness. And this kind of visual perception is helpful. And it is, in fact, one of the primary purposes of the yantra of yantra yoga, is developing this visual capacity for understanding. So we have these four gates. Now, the lotus, depending upon the yantra that you are observing, the lotus will have a different number of petals. The most common representation of the lotus that you'll find in the Indian tradition within yantra is the eight petaled lotus. And the eight petaled lotus represents the eight directions. So we have the north, the northeast, the east, and it continues around until we have the eight directions. And so what this represents is growing complexity and specificity in the differentiated realm. So we have the macro expression of the four cardinal directions, and then we have the eight directions of the eight petaled lotus. And then you have the further differentiation and added complexity of whatever image you have inside of that lotus. Now, sometimes depending upon the yantra, like there are yantras, for example, the Muladhara has a yantra that has a four petaled lotus. So the petals of the lotus will differ depending upon the yantra. But as I said, the most common representation is the eight directional lotus, the eight petaled lotus. Okay? Now, most yantras have some kind of visual representation of the bindu. So the bindu is the central point of awareness for the visual representation. This comes in many forms. But the most common representation of the bindu is a single dot. You'll find that single dot oftentimes in the very center of the entrance. The bendu represents different things depending upon your perception of the cosmos. If you Apply a monistic perception, meaning that everything advances from a single point of consciousness, then the bindu would represent oneness. And if you are applying a bias towards Shakti and the differentiated foundation of consciousness, then the bindu represents the self, the differentiated self. So if you, for example, are observing the Shat Kona, the Shat Kona, which is the downward facing and upward facing triangle combined to represent union of Shiva and Shakti, oftentimes you'll find a dot in the center of the Shat Kona. And the Shat Kona with the dot represents, depending on your perception, oneness or differentiation. Now, interestingly enough, the bindu may be present without any actual symbol. It is just an empty space. And we would still refer to this as the bindu because it is the central point of awareness within the yantra. And so, for example, in the Star of David, we have the Shad Kona, but the bindu, the central point, is represented by emptiness rather than a dot. Now, why would the central point of the yantra have an empty space? Well, basically, if you find an empty space in the center of the yantra, it could mean that the emptiness represents nothingness, oneness, the clear light. Or it could mean that you must emphasize the geometric shapes outside of the central point. So it's an intention towards obscuring the center point and expanding your awareness to the entire geometric shape of the yantra. So those are the two most common potentialities. And you'll notice within the Star of David that the Shat Kona has been stripped of the dot. So the individuated expression of the dot is gone. That means that there is a very intense emphasis on oneness and the spirit within that specific yantra. Now notice that I just referred to the Star of David within the Jewish tradition as a yantra. That's because yantras are not confined to the Indian tradition. As I said at the beginning of this lecture, any visual representation of an aspect of consciousness that you utilize karmically can be a yantra. Now, this drastically expands the potential for yantra yoga. Even in the Indian tradition, with the traditional formation of yantra. Yantra is not confined to these geometric patterns with the four prongs representing the cardinal directions and the lotus and the central image. There are very abstract images that are considered traditionally to be yantra within the Indian tradition. What I am saying is that literally anything that has a visual representation can be utilized as a yantra. It is not necessary for the yantra to be a geometric pattern. It is not necessary for the yantra to be contained within a box with the four cardinal directions. You can have any visual representation and utilize it like a yantra. And to expand that definition even further, yantras do not have to be static images. So what that means is that film, moving pictures, can also be utilized as yantra. Now, consider this. Most people in the developed world spend large amounts of time sitting in front of a screen, whether it's on their computer, phone, tv, and they observe moving images. And the interesting thing is that there are certain frequencies, certain light patterns that are being expressed by these screens that place people in a meditative state. So when they are observing these images, they are practicing yantra yoga. They might not realize it, but they are part of a ritual. When you observe a television screen and you're watching the news or you're watching a music video or something like that, you are affecting your consciousness. This is yantra yoga. Yantra yoga is more common now than at any other time in recorded history, because the willful observation of images has been so ingrained into the social order that you would be hard pressed to find anyone in the world who doesn't have some regular interaction with yantra. Now, understanding this, if we are operating as yogins autonomously, and we realize that all of these moving pictures and static images that surround us, whether in the form of commercial, advertisement or art films, whatever, these tools are now all at our disposal, and we can utilize them in order to advance yantra to new levels, levels never seen before. We're no longer limited to paper and pen and drawing, these yantras. We're no longer limited to going to a temple space where a priest has prepared the yantras, and we have a limited access to what yantras we want to utilize now. We can utilize virtually anything. And that's incredible. We have incredible potential now, and we need to recognize the potential that we have for expanding our practice far beyond the ancients. There's a tendency to emphasize the power of the ancients because in times past, the yogic practices may have been more ingrained in society in terms of the obvious expression of those practices. But what I'm saying is that this kind of yogic ritual is now more common than ever before. But the thing is, is that most people don't recognize that it's occurring. So these yogic practices are operating without awareness and the potential to utilize images to influence others. Never before in history have we had more potential to do this. So if you want to gain power as a yogin, you can do so through cybertantra, Cybertantra. It is the newest manifestation of tantra, cyber agore. We utilize whatever material we have at our disposal in order to advance our power. This school operates a YouTube channel. When we create videos, we are creating yantras. Every video we release is a yantra. It contains some yogic potential within it. And so we are practicing cybertantra. It's a very exciting age that we are living in that we have access to this type of technology and we can utilize it to gain power. Very inspirational. So when you perceive your yantra practice, you have to recognize that you are not confined to the work of the ancients. You don't have to just utilize the Kali yantra or the Sri Yantra or anything like that. You can literally utilize any image, any image. And the depth of imagery that we have access to is so intense that the scope of practice has expanded exponentially. So let's go back to some of the basics of yantra in order to determine how we can now capitalize on this new condition of the expansive power of the image. Okay, so in the construction of yantra, yantra is utilized for different general purposes. You have yantra that is drawn in a ritual space. So, for example, you might draw yantra and then place items on top of that yantra to form an altar. You have yantra that is placed on a wall, and you observe that yantra. And when you observe that yantra, you are exploring the. The portal to altered consciousness that is offered by that yantra. And then you have the tattooing of yantra, which is something that is traditional. Placing yantra on the body or placing yantra on a vehicle, placing yantra on a home. You can place yantra on anything in order to grant power to that thing, the essence of that yantra. Next. Now, many of the yantras we find in the ancient tradition were channeled by yogins, by siddhas, who had access to deities. So there is an explicit connection between certain yantra and a specific deity. I mentioned, the Kali yantra. The Kali yantra was channeled by powerful siddhas who had direct access to Kali. And so if you want to access the essence of Kali, you can do so through the Kali yantra, the downward facing triangle, the colors of the yantra. And by the way, the colors of the yantra are very important aspects. Color carries power. It carries significance. For example, the gunas are associated with color. You have satva, which is associated with white. You have rajas, which is associated with red. And then you have tamas, which is associated with black. So the Red, white, and black, which you find in many different symbols throughout history. This represents the scope of material creation and differentiation. So if you see a color associated with a specific yantra, the colors are important. Now, of course, it's a matter of perception. So you can choose to ignore that aspect of the yantra, or you can choose to embrace the power of the color that is expressed or the shape. The more that you embrace differentiated form in the material world, the more significant these elements become. Of course, there's certain conditions that you have to accept if you're going to bring your awareness to the significance of the material form. But there's power that you gain through that. So yantra, like most things in yoga, like all things in yoga, really, it's deeply influenced by perception. Okay, so let's think about the formation of yantra based upon the conditions that I just described in our contemporary world. Let's say you're creating an altar space, okay? In your home, you could have a table with a yantra drawn on it. And this is a common sight in India. You'll have a ritual table that has a large yantra on it. And then you put all of your puja items on top of that. Okay, well, we are experimenting in this school with what I call cybertantra. And so we are creating digital ritual spaces, and we are utilizing images in these digital spaces, which is yantra yoga. It's a new form of yoga, new form of tantra, and we're experimenting with it with great results. And when you craft an image in a digital space, you are utilizing yantra magic. So, for example, if you're on Instagram and you're crafting a specific image in the way that you present yourself in the photos that you put up, the reels that you put up, these are all yantras. These are all images that you're providing to people. So you're utilizing yantra yoga when you do this, and if you can learn how to do this willfully, you'll be able to maximize your potential, the power that you can gain from that practice. So that's one aspect. And placing yantra on the body while tattooing, very popular now, placing a yantra, placing an image on your body, any image of significance, can bring you power. Placing images around your home, in your physical space, that can bring you power. Creating a film that cultivates a certain aesthetic, that is a way you can utilize yantra magic. There's so many different ways that you can represent images in a yoga practice. It's really just limited by your Imagination, your creativity, and the materials at your disposal. But most of us in the developed world can at least access the Internet, and we can utilize, for example, social media as a means of practicing yantra yoga. And I definitely encourage everyone to do that. Okay, so with the practice of yantra, it's important to understand how to make the most out of these images. When we are practicing yantra, traditionally, what we want to emphasize is something called the soft focus. So this is a passive kriya approach to yantra yoga. Let's say you have the Kali yantra on the wall. You bring your awareness to the bindu. The bindu, the central point of awareness, allows you to have a focus point. It's like the flame on a candle. When you're practicing trataka. And most yantra meditative exercise in a traditional sense is in the form of trataka. So your observing the yantra, what are you doing when you're observing the yantra? Well, you're making your consciousness open, your awareness open to the message that travels through the yantra. Another word for yantra is machine or vehicle. And this is a vehicle to altered consciousness. It's a vehicle to other dimensions of consciousness, so you are in communion with whatever that yantra represents. At times, it is appropriate to bring a certain perspective to the yantra. But generally, when you observe those images, those images are channeled in such a way that they are designed to induce a specific form of altered consciousness. So if I'm observing the Kali yantra and I allow myself to enter toraya and be open to the experience of what the yantra has to offer, then I am going to generally get the most out of my practice. And the soft focus is when you begin to allow your eyes to adjust to observing the entire expression of the mantra. Now, when I say you're observing the entire expression of the entrance, I don't just mean that you're observing the image as a whole. I mean that you're observing everything, everything that comes to you, both in the physical space, in the natural space, and the subtle space. You are observing all these things, that which is conjured in your mind's eye, that which appears to you materially. All of these things are important. And yantra is a vehicle. It's a means of accessing these images. So it's very powerful. You can do this with the traditional yantra, geometric shapes, or you can watch a film, for example. Next time you watch a film, try to apply the approach of trataka to the film. Observe the film from time to time. Close your eyes and allow the film to inspire images inside. It's practicing awareness in the observation of images, whether they are static or moving. And this is yantra yoga. If you are able to apply this strategy effectively, you're going to gain access to new layers of understanding in your interaction with these images, the visual world and all of the visual representations of consciousness that we can find within the yantra.