# rtt lecture - The Tantras

The Tantras. So we practice tantra. This is a school of tantra, and there's this whole school of literature which we refer to as the Tantras that exists somewhere out there in the world. But it is very difficult for non Sanskrit speakers to access the tantras in their full expression because most of the tantras have not been translated to English or any other language. Most of the tantras remain obscured. They remain in Sanskrit. And it's hard to even find copy of the Sanskrit version of these texts. Yet Tantra remains a strong popular practice throughout the globe. Of course, most of the tantra that's practice is not traditional. But the point stands that tantra is extremely popular globally in its various forms. But the literature, the tantras, this remains inaccessible to most people. And why is that? Well, I'm going to talk about why that is tonight. I'm going to talk about what we can do about that, and I'm going to talk about what the tantras are exactly, because this is very important to understand. So most practitioners of tantra, including Indian Tantrics, do not read the tantras at all. Most of the practices that we find within Tantra, most of the concepts that are discussed are passed down from guru to disciple through the guru system. And so what we have is primarily an oral tradition as well as a tradition of physical practice, which is appropriate because tantra, after all, is a physical practice. Tantra is exploration of consciousness and the cosmos with the foundation in the physical. Now, from the foundation of the physical, we expand out and we explore all aspects of consciousness. But the foundation in physical practice is absolutely important and it is something that has to be grasped in order to practice tantra effectively. The emphasis on the physicality of the practice over conceptual understanding really sets Tantra apart from other schools of magic. Because within Tantra we have an emphasis on what is immediate to us as the foundation of our practice, which is not the case in most schools of magic. In most schools of magic, the emphasis is placed upon the text, the book, the scripture. And that is because most magic practices that exist in our contemporary time are heavily influenced by Abrahamism. The spread of Abrahamism has been heavily reliant on Scripture. Like, for example, we see the spread of Christianity in Africa as a result of these public schools that are built in Africa where children are taught English. And when they are taught English, they are being taught English. In a Christian context. The Bible is often used as an educational tool. And this is just one of the ways that the Scripture has the way Spiritual knowledge and grasping God. And in fact, the emphasis in Western magic has been highly contemplative. And this is a break from the tradition of Western magic, if you think about, for example, magic in Scandinavia. So one of the reasons why it is so difficult to access Scandinavian magic is because those traditions were passed down orally, and they were passed down through a physical practice. There has always been a heavy emphasis on physicality in Aryan magic. And this emphasis on physicality is good in that it offers an immediate affirmation of the individuated expression of the self, which is empowering. It's extremely empowering to be able to access knowledge through the body. This affirms the value of the body, which is something that is placed in. So we of the body, we need that affirmation of the physical in order to recognize the beauty that coexists with ugliness. We want to experience pain, pleasure, happiness, sadness, all of these things. And we can experience these things with a full embrace of the spectrum of experience. If we begin with the recognition that the physical, the blood, is not bad, it is not sinful, it is not evil, it is something that we should embrace. And Western magic, prior to the spread of Christianity, affirmed the physical practice as being extremely important. However, there is a problem with this. That is, when the physical practice and the oral tradition is interrupted by some cataclysm. And the spread of Christianity through Europe was a great cataclysm. And when this occurred, these practices were either halted or they receded into the underground due to the lack of written sources concerning these practices. The entire Scandinavian tradition, for example, was interpreted by Christians. Now, some of these Christians seem to have approached the traditions with good intention. By good intention, I mean that they intended to preserve the pure essence of what was taught in Scandinavia. But nonetheless, this is still being presented to us through the lens of a Christian soul or an Aryan soul that has been described, degenerated by Christianity. And so what we have is a muddying of the tradition if we are to rely purely upon what is written. So if you're to go to the Eddas and rely upon what is written, you have to recognize that there are certain biases in the interpretation of the myths that reveal a Christian influence in the way that this information is presented. So what's important is that we access the Scandinavian tradition by examining the text, because spiritual tradition has been defined by reference to scripture since the spread of Abrahamism throughout the globe. So the oral tradition has been broken for the most part. You can still access it at times, but most of Us, we can't access the oral tradition. Currently, it will return if we will it, but currently it's very difficult. Most people don't know a Norse witch that has knowledge of the myth who can speak on these subjects over a fire, as was done for thousands of years by our ancestors, by my ancestors, at least. I can't speak for everyone, but we can all, for the most part, all of us, we can access the Eddas quite easily. And so if we can access these myths, we can recognize, yes, this has been passed down by a Christian interpretation. Christian interpretation. I'm not saying that there was a willful Christianization of the way that the myths were presented. What I'm saying is that a Christian interpreted the myths, and when a Christian interprets something, there is some aspect of that person's spiritual essence that echoes through their work. So we have to sift through that. And that's fine, we can do that. But in order to really access the tradition, we cannot rely upon the written word. We have to go beyond what is written. And in order to go beyond what is written, we have to look to the blood, we have to access the body, we have to practice, and we have to emphasize practice. And practice is something that is not typically emphasized in Western tradition. And this is where the obsession with reading comes in, which most people who are exploring magic, the first thing they ask whenever they have discovered some new concept, is, can you recommend a book on this? Can you recommend some readings? And there are many concepts where you can recommend a reading, but the reading is obscured because you have to have some physical experience in the interaction with the gods, the interaction with subtle space, natural space, with the self, with iness. You have to have some interaction in order to really understand what is on the page. If you don't practice, you're only getting a small little sliver of the story. And so that needs to change. That needs to change in Western magic. That needs to change specifically in the Aryan tradition. Because it is within the Aryan tradition that we find this deep affirmation of the mother of Shakti, of the earth, of the blood, of the active world. And so what we can do is we can look to India, we can look to the Tantras, we can look to this place where the Aryan tradition was preserved in the underground through the work of the Tantrics. It was passed down orally because Tantra is very old. Tantra is older than the Vedas. Tantra is extremely old. Now, we don't call it Tantra when we talk about what came before the Vedas in a historical sense. But we can speak of the perennial tradition of tantra. And so what came before the Vedas, we don't know what it was called. We don't know if it was called tantra, we don't know if it was called yoga. But we know that the practices that inform yoga, that inform the tantras, the myths, the interactions with the gods, we know that this is older than written history. These are ancient, perennial practices. And in fact, it doesn't even make much sense to talk about these practices in a linear historical sense, because, as I said, they are perennial. And so they return to us, they disappear from the historical record, they come back, we have access to them, we can employ them. And when we access the tantras, when we access this tradition of yoga, this grand Aryan tradition, what do we do with it? We can speak about it, we can practice, we can create art, and we can create scripture, we can create texts, we can put into written word certain concepts that are worth preserving in that structure. And that is an important aspect of tantra. Even though the foundation of the practice is physical, it is still important to explore what is written. Now let's talk about what is written on tantra. So when we talk about the tantras as a written tradition, what we are talking about, for the most part, the Indian tradition is a dialogue between Shiva and shakti. Most of the tantras are structured in this way. There is a dialogue, a teaching between the divine masculine and the divine feminine. So the tantras are structured as the words of the gods, and the gods are speaking to each other, sometimes providing direction to a yogi who is interpreting the words of the gods. And in speaking to each other, they're exploring some aspect of consciousness. This is a cosmic discourse. This discourse has implications beyond the mind. When you read the tantras, you feel the essence of the gods. You can recognize their energetic signature. And this is really interesting. Whenever you begin to compare the tantras from one incarnation of Shakti to another, or one incarnation of Shiva to another. For example, if you compare the Kali Tantra to the Lakshmi Tantra or the Bhairava Tantra to the Lakshmi Tantra, you will get a new perspective that is informed by the specific incarnation that is creating this cosmic discourse. When I read the Lakshmi Tantra, I feel her essence. I feel the balance and the wrath and the heart and the beauty and the abundance, all of these things. I feel the motherly aspect of shakti. I feel the underlying current of Vishnu acting as this vital force. I feel that Lakshmi is with me when I read the tantras. And that's a beautiful thing about the tantras. And that's one of the greatest reasons you can have for reading any of the tantras, is that you are in communion with the gods when you read these books. And these books are meant to be living expressions of the gods. So it's not as if these words were put down on paper. And that's the end of the story. When you read the tantras, it is implied that you are to take the direction that is given to shakti or to shiva, and you are to apply it in your own life. You are to practice with the tantras as a foundation. And so in this way, we see the tantras as living books. And it's an ongoing discourse, because the discussion does not end once you run out of pages. The discussion continues within your own life, within society, you can see the continuing cosmic discourse. And so when you're reading the tantras, what you're doing is you're peering into a conversation. It's like eavesdropping into a conversation between the gods. And they're giving you one aspect that, in fact, is so deep in its expression that when you are able to access that one aspect of the cosmos being represented within a given tantra and apply it in practice, you can find that everything that you need to understand about the cosmos in order to get to its fundamental nature can be found within any of these texts. So what you need to do if you're going to explore the tantras is find one that is accessible to you. Find an English translation, Find an incarnation of shiva or shakti that you resonate with personally. Read the words, and you will know the words in yourself because they exist within you. These expressions exist within you. They are in your blood, they are in your belly, they are in your mind, and they are in the spirit. And they all become accessible in a very special way when you can find them within the tantras. Now, when you are in communion with the deities, when reading the tantras, it's important to understand the classification of the book, because this will give you deeper insight into the nature of the experience. So within tantra, we have books divided into agama and nigama. So agama is a Sanskrit word. It has many meanings, but basically, in the way that we're applying it now, agama means traditional. It's a traditional text, and traditional in a perennial sense. And the idea behind agama is that when you are reading an Agama text, you are reading an instructional manual, basically. And the idea is that the agama is a step ladder to what is ultimate truth. And ultimate truth is said to be written in what is nigama. Now, nigama text would include the vedas typically. And there is some differentiation regarding what is classified as agama versus nigama. But typically agama includes the teachings of shiva as delivered to shakti. This is the step ladder. Now, nigama, or ultimate truth, expressed in the written word, this is shakti teaching shiva. Now what does that say about the tantras and tantric tradition as a whole? It means that when you possess the bias of shiva as the teacher, you are advancing towards some understanding that will bring you towards a much deeper recognition of ultimate truth and that we find expressed in the right hand path. So the texts that are associated with shiva as the teacher, these are texts that draw you towards oneness, towards non duality in a very non transgressive sense. So this is traditional asceticism applied in order to overcome the self. And that is typically what you will find in agama. Now, the shakta tantra, this is what is delivered from shakti to shiva. This is regarded as ultimate truth because shakti is the reigning force of God within the differentiated age. So for you to even be able to interact with ideas in a physical environment, shakti must reign supreme. If you are advancing towards the father as your ultimate aim, as is the case in the Abrahamic tradition, you must dissolve everything into oneness. That is the ultimate expression of that tradition. Dissolution, the ultimate expression of embracing the mother is differentiation. So if you are embracing shakti as the foundation of consciousness, if you are embracing individuation through the blood, this is nigama. This is the shakta tantra. Now there are differing opinions on how many tantras there are in the various categories. But if you are to reference the tantras themselves, most say that there are 64 Shakta Agamas. And when I say agama, I mean just the general tantric literature. The shakta tantras are numerous and they each represent a different incarnation of Shakti as the teacher. Now, there are far more than 64 tantras. In fact, if we want to talk about tantras as a general form of literature, there's thousands of tantras. And that's something that we need to discuss because tantras are not limited to these ancient texts. What makes something a tantra is that it is a written practice or a written expression. That allows you to be in communion with the gods. That's what makes a tantra. And if you think about it, that could really be anything. That could be a comic book, it could be a Russian novel, it could be the dictionary. If you see God, everything, if you see Shakti in everything, then ultimately everything that you read becomes nigama, it becomes ultimate truth, it becomes a pathway to shakti. So we should not limit ourselves to what is written in Sanskrit in India about the tantras. The tantras are living texts and they're growing. And when we look to, for example, Tantric Buddhism, the Tibetan tradition is full of tantras that go outside of the Indian tradition and are beautiful texts. And there are many of them, hundreds of them, and they are classified in many different categories because Tantric Buddhism is a. It's a Vishudi tradition. And so the categorization is very intellectual, very scholarly. But there is this tendency towards expansion in the Buddhist tradition, and there is a tendency towards expansion in the Indian tradition as well. Tantra, One of the meanings of tantra is to expand, to expand consciousness. And that doesn't mean to just expand your own understanding of consciousness. It means to expand the expression of consciousness. And so do you need to read all of the Indian Tantras to be considered a Tantric master? No, you do not need to do that. Do you need to read any of the tantras to become a Tantric master? No, you do not need to. Is it helpful? Yes, it is helpful, but it is not necessary. Everything that you need to become a Tantric master, you were born with it. You don't need a book, you don't need special clothing, you don't need special jewelry. All you need is your body and you can become a Tantric master. Now, understanding this, we should not limit our exploration of Tantra to the Indian tradition. And this is something that I've been emphasizing for years now. When we approach the Eddas, for example, we should approach them from a Tantric perspective. We should see these texts as communion with the gods. And it doesn't matter if the Eddas were interpreted by a Christian. We can find God, we can find the gods in these books, but we have to apply them. We have to do as the Indian Tantrics do. We have to apply what we find in these texts. And by searching the body, which is all we need to become a master, we can find deeper truth, expression. We can be part of that cosmic discourse that exists, that is accessible to us within the text. There is an intense focus on Practice within the Tantric tradition that we all should learn from. It doesn't matter whether you practice Norse paganism or Hellenism or traditional Native American religion. Whatever you practice, you will succeed in finding essential truth if you apply yourself fully to the pursuit of dharma, which exists inside of you and can be accessed through practice. Now, what do we do with all of these books? We read them if we're interested in them, but we don't live and die by them. Living and dying by a book is something that a Christian does. That's Abrahamic. Tantra is ultimately very transgressive in that we recognize that the poisons that we're born with can be made into something beautiful, can be made into a medicine, and poison itself is beautiful. The ultimate poison is the self I ness, the ego. If you're focusing on the words of another and you're developing your entire perspective on obsessively upholding the word of another as the foundation of your consciousness, you lose yourself and you can't gain access to that ultimate poison, which will feed you and make you more powerful. That is why Tantra is transgressive, because we embrace that poison. But in order to embrace that poison, we have to remove ourselves from the dogma of the written word that we find in Abrahamism. So don't subject yourself. Don't prostrate yourself to the writings of Julius Evola or Rene Ginon or Savitri Devi or Adolf Hitler or Karl Marx or anyone. What you must do is take what is dharmic for you from those writings and apply it in your practice. Go beyond what is written. Everything that is written is going to have some bias in it, some perspective that is inherent to the I ness of the individual who is expressing that idea. So you've got to take from it what makes you powerful and leave the rest. And it's the same when we are in communion with the gods, because the gods being individuated expressions of consciousness, they also express bias. So now what we can do is we can look to the tantras that are translated and read them and take from them what we will. And then we can work to translate to English the tantras that have not been translated and spread those beautiful books out onto the world. We can do that, and we will if we want to. I want to, and that's one of my projects that I'm working on. But we can also recognize that the children's books that we read when we were little, that were read to us, those helped us to be in communion with the gods, and those were tantras themselves. So don't discount anything that you read. Don't discount any musical experience, any conversation that you have with anyone on the street, any. Any expression of communion with any part of the world can be tantric. And if you take this perspective and you take it to heart and you apply it, you'll find that there are endless paths to truth, and they all begin with I.