# The Right-Hand Path Part 8 - Sahasrara

Okay, so we have reached the final lecture in the series on the Right. Hand Path and the chakras Rooted consciousness. And we are ending with the capstone of the Pyramid of the Self, which is the Sahashara, or the Crown chakra. So the Sahashira is located at the crown of the skull, which is one of the reasons why it's known as the Crown chakra. But it's also known as the Crown. Chakra because of its association with the elevated position. Now, when we're talking about the crown chakra, something that involves regality would bring about an association with crowns or the scepter, or some image of kingship. But of course, the Sahashira in Western esotericism would not be associated with the king. What would be associated with the king is the Anahata. So why then do we have this. Association with the crown and the Sahashra, other than the obvious physical association with the crown of the skull as the location on the body? Well, the reason why we have this association with the crown and the Sahasra is because the Sahasra is associated with pride. And. All of the maladjustments that can. Form within the Sahasra are ultimately associated with pride. In a moment, I'm going to talk about those maladjustments, and I'm going to talk about this aspect of pride. But I also want to mention that pride is not just an aspect of maladjustment within the Sasha. Just like with all the chakras, the poison that leads to maladjustment at the crown is also a great source of power, if it's accessed properly. And there are two forms of Sahasra consciousness that manifest. One is the unified aspect of Sahasra consciousness, which focuses on the subtle body and the monistic point as a reference for the energetic expression of this consciousness. The other is that which expresses great pride and the beauty of individuation as a contrasting point to unification. And that is the Luciferian element. Now, I refer to this mode of Sahasra consciousness as Luciferian Sasha for multiple reasons. For one reason, we have the association between Lucifer and pride in mythology. In Perennial Tantra, Lucifer is perhaps the greatest example of pride as a force for transformation. And there is a deep association between Lucifer and pride, just as a character trait, but also Lucifer possesses Sasha consciousness. So there's a deep connection between the crown and all things Luciferian. Also, there is this association between Lucifer and things that are challenging dark taboo. Because one of the confusions that has developed around the Sahasra is The idea that this chakra is somehow the place of love and light, and that's all it is. That once you reach the Sahasra, you will live as this perfect being who is incapable of doing any harm, who. Bathes the world in this purifying glow. And the fact is, individuals rooted in the Sahasra and individuals operating from the Sahasra are just as capable of doing harm and spreading darkness within the world as anyone else. The reason why this bias has developed around the Sahashra is because of its elevated position. So you think about the placement of the Sahashra chakra on the body. It is at the crown. In fact, it sits right above the crown. So it's the only chakra that is. Not inside of the physical body. From this elevated position, we have a recognition of hierarchy. So if the pyramid of the self. Begins at the Muladhara, this is the foundation. We advance up the spine and we get closer and closer to the capstone, which is the crown, the Sahashra. So if you are born in a. Rooted state of the Sahashra. You have a natural awareness of elevation, a feeling of elevation. And because you have this natural sense. Of elevation, this inspires pride. So this is where the connection between. Pride and the crown is found. It's in the physical location of the chakra. Now, there is also the aspect of subtlety. Because the Muladhara is the gross form, it is the obvious state, the most. Accessible state of consciousness in terms of the direct experience of that expression of. Consciousness in our environment and within the self. Muladhara means root of existence. So with the muladhara being the root of existence in the Kali Yuga, as we advance up the spine, we're getting closer to that which is subtle. Going from gross expression to subtle expression. The Sahashra is the ultimate expression of subtlety in human form. And. The subtle expression of the Sahasra is explicitly related to the subtle body. So we have the blood body at the muladhara, that is the material expression of the body. And the subtle body at the Sahasra. The subtle body is a chronic formation that surrounds the rest of the body. It is part of the body. It is connected to the body because. All parts of the body are connected. If you separate one part, if you. Alienate it, isolate it from the rest. Of the body, then the entire form collapses. And so if you were to, for. Example, strip me of my subtle body. I would no longer be Skylar. I would be something different because I would be lacking an essential aspect of my form. So the Subtle body is connected, but it's surrounding. And there are means of accessing and. Sensing the subtle body. But primarily we operate with awareness of the physical body. And because we have this awareness of. The physical body, there's a tendency to. Take it for granted. So when most people think of magic, they think of that which exists outside of material experience. And of course, the furthest point away from material experience is the subtle body. Within the self is the spirit and the subtle body is the spirit body. These are interchangeable concepts, interchangeable titles. So because we tend to take the material for granted, it's difficult to see the magic within the blood. There is great magic within the blood. For example, a sperm cell entering an. Egg and creating a human being through. A physical process that is miraculous. It is magical. But the physical process that occurs is. So vulgar in its expression, it is. So obvious that most people would not consider it to be magic, even though it is magic. There is an associated magic with every. Aspect of the self. There is Manipura magic, Vishuddhi magic, Anahata magic, all forms Svadistana magic. But magic becomes increasingly perceptible as magic, as something that would be considered miraculous. The closer you get to the Sahashra. And when you reach the Sahasra, this. Is the point where you are closest to God, consciousness. So when somebody has a really intense spiritual awakening. It'S a spiritual awakening. So it takes place in the spirit. These spiritual events are so earth shattering. They literally uproot and destroy the foundation. Of understanding for people. Because what is happening is the individual. Is being stripped away from their material foundation. The adversarial state of consciousness for this ashra is the Muladhara. So this is our grounding point. When we have these extreme experiences in the spiritual world, it seems to contradict. Everything that provides us with some means. Of making sense of our world. And that is why it is earth shaking. It is groundbreaking. The Muladhara is earth. So if you are shifting far away from your material foundation, you are experiencing a breaking up, a dissolution of that which allows you to feel whole, allows you to feel like you have a sense of control over the direction of your form, your body, your individuated manifestation. So the Sahash was a special place. It is special, but so is every other state of consciousness. However, the experiences that we associate with. The Sahashvara are so rare, or at. Least perception of those experiences, such a rare occurrence that when we do become aware, when we can perceive the presence. Of the spirit, it's a fascinating thing. And so this is another reason why there's an aspect of pride within the Sahasra. Because those individuals were born in this rooted state because they have immediate access to these rare points of perception. Their value in terms of scarcity of conscious experience, their value is increased exponentially by those who hold those spiritual experiences in high regard. Of course we want to hold those spiritual experiences in high regard because if. You'Re born into a state of unrefined. Shakti, if you have that material foundation. And you want to experience something more. You want to refine yourself, you want. To bring the kundalini from the root to the crown and achieve unification between Shiva and Shakti. If you want to do that, you have to hold the Sahasra in high regard. Because if you're standing at the base of Mount Meru and you want to. Reach the peak, you must turn your. Awareness towards the peak. The peak is a Sahashra on the. Right hand path, that is 100%. The goal of ascension is to reach the Sahashra and then to find what treasures lie within it. Now, what's funny about that is that individuals who are born rooted in the Sahashara. Don'T possess the awareness that will. Allow them to access those treasures because they lack the necessary points of contrast. You cannot just simply be born into transcendence by possessing a rooted consciousness in the Sashra. Nor can you just go straight to the Sahashira from whatever your rooted state. Is, and then suddenly experience transcendence. Because it is absolutely necessary to know the self, to understand what lies in the dark corners, each chakra within the self, before you can ever step across that abyss and see what's on the other side. And it is, I have found. Generally. More difficult for individuals who are rooted in the Sahashra to take that leap, to begin to explore all the other aspects of consciousness. In comparison with individuals who are rooted. In other states, it is more difficult because, for one, these individuals have a great deal of natural pride. And so rarely will an individual rooted in the Sahashra be willing to follow the instructions of a guru. Most individuals who are rooted in the. Sahasra tend to have a very strong rebellious streak within them. And it is difficult for a Sahashra individual to recognize authority above them, even. If that authority might bring them greater power. It requires a questioning of that great internal pride that they hold. So it is difficult, and you also have to factor in that individuals rooted in the Sahashra are at the furthest. Point of contemplation in the chakras. The absolute strongest expression of contemplation. Now, contemplation is slow, slow to move. You think about the active states. The active states are active. What's funny is if you're to place the quickness of consciousness on a scale in terms of how quickly someone is able to strike and take action, the. Fastest point is the Anahata. It's lightning. It's bam. Lightning strikes. Action is taken. Just rest in control of the environment. That's the Anahata. That's the quickest point of consciousness. And then you have Manipura Vishuddhi, quick. Not as quick as the Anahata, but still fast. Then you have the Svadistana and the Ajna starting to slow down. Then you have the Muladhara and this Ashra slow. Muladhara is slow to get up and move because the heaviness of that state of consciousness and so resources are held close and resource expenditure is a big deal. The Muladhara yogin has to decide carefully. Whether or not getting up and taking. Further action is a worthy pursuit. And the Sahasra is similar. But instead of heaviness, it's intense lightness. And it's difficult for the individual rooted. In the Sashara to reach down and. Grab a point where they can be pulled towards a grounding so that they can actually take further action. Now, the thing about the Muladhara is it's an active state. So regardless of whether Muladhara yogins are applying will in further action, their existence is itself active. They are taking up space in the material world just by their presence. But it's different for the Sahashra because the Sahashra is contemplative. And so it makes space. Think about the difference between John Wayne. At the Muladhara and Mr. Rogers at the Sashra. John Wayne moves slow, but he has a physical presence. He takes up space. He doesn't have to do much just by standing there. He's doing enough to create some kind. Of reaction in the physical environment. Mr. Rogers is very different. He moves slow too. But his presence does not create reactions. So much in the physical environment. It's more that he creates space, safe space for others. Now, it's not absolutely necessary that everyone who's rooted in the Muladhara have a strong physical presence like John Wayne, or that everyone in this Astra has a. Really open expression like Fred Rogers. But that's just a generalization that captures. The core of the energetic expression of those two states. Now, if you're always in a state, a pure expression of. Making room for others. It's very difficult to make room for yourself in taking action. There's a slowness to the way that you develop your practice. And this is difficult. And this is, in fact, something that. Can be experienced by everybody, because we. Can all shift into the Sasha and. We can know what it's like to be in this light flow state where you are so light that you don't feel like applying yourself to any sort of rigid structure. Now, that is interesting, because the Sahashara. Associated with Shiva, it's the closest point. To Shiva, and Shiva himself is rooted in Sahasra consciousness. So Shiva is divine masculinity, which is order, which is adversarial to Shakti, divine femininity, which is chaos. So you'd think, okay, individuals rooted in the Sahashvara want some kind of rigid. Structure, but they cannot access that kind of rigid structure until they can find a grounding point. Instead, what they seek is a container. And individuals in the Sasha are often quite interested in creating containers for other people. That's part of making space for others. But these containers often fail to offer any sort of rigid or formal structure. Until the individual operating from the sashra can integrate some grounding point, whether it. Is contemplative grounding in the Vishuddhi or. Physical grounding in the Muladhara. And that is why Sahashra people tend. To exist in environments that are incredibly unorganized, messy, because there is a confusion over the physical. There's a question of what are we supposed to do with the body? What are we supposed to do with these material things that surround us? And so one of the maladjusted behaviors that is associated with the Sahasra is hoarding. Because there's a confusion over the role. Of the physical in our lives from maladjustment in the Sasha. There's a tendency to believe that if we can collect enough physical things and surround ourselves with the physical, that somehow. We will be able to connect with the physical and integrate the physical. What's really happening here is that the individuals who is operating from the sashra. Is searching for the muladhara. They want to find some connection to. The blood, and they're doing it through. The accumulation of material things. Now, this type of behavior is encouraged by consumer culture. If you are rooted in the Sasha. Or if you've moved into the Sasha. In a kundalini practice, or just shifting consciousness and you're trying to integrate the Muladhara, society is going to encourage you to buy things, collect things, buy more. Shit, and the more shit you have, the closer you get to the earth. That's the idea, right? Like, if I surround myself with, you know, tennis shoes or something like that, somehow I'll be able to ground myself. But of course, this is a cheap surrogate for actually connecting with the blood. And society doesn't offer any healthy manner of blood consciousness. There's no avenue for accessing the blood in the wider culture. In fact, everyone is discouraged from recognizing the blood. Well, not everyone. Some people are encouraged. There are certain groups that are allowed. To recognize blood, and there are some who are discouraged. And those individuals who are discouraged from recognizing the blood, they're the ones who are most likely to suffer from maladjustment. In the Sahasra. Europeans are in the midst of a. Kundalini process, where they are operating from the sashra. This is part of an advancement that. Can be traced back through history. Right now, most European social bodies are operating collectively from the sashra. And we can see this in the. Well, of course, the energetic expression. If you can read energy, you can read the Sahashra within European social bodies. But you can also identify certain behaviors that are associated with the Sahasra, such as the interest in unifying with others. So European countries are the ones who are most likely to open their borders. And allow people from all over the world to come in. Because there is no physical grounding element within these cultures. There is just the desire to unify, unify with other races, unify with other cultural expressions, and dissolve. There is this drive to death, this death wish, desire for destruction of the physical expression of the European racial body within Europeans. Europeans have become extremely aware of the dangers of pride. They have not embraced healthy expressions of pride, and they become incredibly confused about the nature of the material. So European cultures are very prone to extreme consumerism. That's the hoarding impulse that can develop within the Sasha. But they're also prone to sexual confusion. Confusion over how to operate the body, how to protect the body. That's why European countries won't establish borders. Because there is a confusion over barriers. That can develop in the Sasha. Individuals rooted in the Sasha and people operating from the Sasha can suddenly lose their sense of barriers altogether. And this can cause a lot of. Problems, not just for the individual, but. Also for everyone around them. Because if there is a sudden lack of barriers or a dropping of barriers, so many things can go wrong. Humans are social creatures. And for society to be able to function effectively, there. Needs to be barriers. But if you lack barriers. For one. You'Re going to Be expressing things in social settings that might undermine your power. You can be oversharing. You can become overly interested in the. Behaviors of other people, in the lives of other people. That's one potential maladjustment that can develop that can really do a lot of harm to oneself. But also you can leave yourself open to the influence of others. And this is a very common maladjustment for individuals in this ashra. It's failing to establish the necessary boundaries. The necessary protective barriers to ensure that. One does not become spiritually polluted. Now, when I say spiritual pollution, I'm. Speaking of a specific condition that I have identified in my years of researching. Consciousness, wherein an individual becomes. Distressed by. An awareness, hyper awareness of the chronic expression of everything around them. And when I mean everything I. Or when I say everything, I mean everything I mean from this ashra, you. Can suddenly become aware not only of. The energetic expression of other people, but also animals, non human animals, plant life, inanimate objects. All of these things express some type. Of consciousness aspect, some type of prana. And one of the great powers that you can access from the Sahasra is an awareness of these things. Because it allows you to be in communion with these things. It allows you to have a clairvoyance and to interact with those energy systems and manipulate them or be manipulated by them willfully. But if you don't have the necessary. Barriers in place, this is disturbing. Because suddenly you exist at the mercy. Of the waters that you find yourself within. And elementally speaking, the Sahashra is associated with water. It's the water of the spirit. It's the River Styx. It's the rain that falls from heaven. It's the blue sky above us, the. Waters of the firmament. This is the spirit. And if you're operating from the Sahashara, you can become like a fish, like an octopus, like a whale. You are existing at the mercy of the currents. And if the currents become too strong. They can sweep you away. So Sahasra people and individuals operating from this state in Kundalini practice have to. Be very aware of the waters that. They find themselves swimming within. Because if you're swimming in the wrong waters, you might not survive. A saltwater fish can't simply be taken. Out of the ocean and thrown in. A freshwater lake and then survive. And the same for a freshwater fish. Can'T just be thrown into the ocean. You have to be in the right spiritual environment in order to cultivate good health and power. The problem is that sometimes you need. A change of waters in Order to be able to explore, to expand, to learn and grow. But Sahasra people have a tendency to become very comfortable in the waters that. They are used to. And this is another thing that keeps. Them from taking action. To exist within. Familiar waters. Allows the Sahasra yogin to form. Awareness of their environment. That can prevent the type of spiritual. Pollution that I spoke of earlier. So this can lead to very reclusive behavior. Which is difficult for individuals rooted in this ashra. Because these individuals have an interest in others. They want to be unified with others. They want to be part of a community. And so becoming too comfortable in familiar waters. Really undercuts the ability of these individuals. To form that community, to find that unification. So there has to be some willingness to experience new waters, new territory. But, of course, you can't just go from the Caribbean to somebody's pond in their backyard. The shock will be too much. And the Sahashra is therefore a very sensitive place. Very sensitive to changing conditions. If the conditions are too intense, the experience is too much. Can lead to an overpowering. And such an incredible spiritual pollution. That it utterly destroys the contemplative structure of the yogin. So we can contrast this with the muladhara. The Muladhara is a very sturdy place. Muladhara people can take a lot of punishment. They can really take a beating and keep going. And so Muladhara people tend to be able to throw themselves into experiences and be okay. Whereas a Sahashra person practicing something like Kundalini. Suddenly they become just terribly aware of everything that can go wrong. And this can feed into that unwillingness to listen to others. The unwillingness to follow the teachings of a guru. The unwillingness to take action. These are all things that can prevent one from achieving transcendence on the Right Hand Path. And so therefore, one may even say that the Sahasra is the most difficult state of consciousness to start from in the Right Hand Path. Because you're starting at the peak. But you don't have the awareness of. Altered states of consciousness. And the Kundalini process. To understand the significance of standing at the peak. And you have this sensitivity to everything. That can go wrong. In dangerous practices like Kundalini. So if you're already at the peak base of the mountain is a long way away. And you know you got to go down there. And you know how high up this is. Because you're born at that high point of awareness. So it's kind of daunting to have to root yourself and then climb back up. It's very Difficult. Of course, this isn't the experience for. Every single person rooted in the Sasha. But it is a common challenge. And so what has happened in the New Age movement is Kundalini has been stripped of its danger, it's been stripped of its intensity. And the New Age has marketed Kundalini. Practices that are very milquetoast, very weak, won't actually lead to any sort of major shift in consciousness. What in fact occurs is that most. Of these Kundalini practices, so called Kundalini. Practices in the New Age, are led by individuals rooted in the Sahashra, are marketed to other individuals rooted in the. Sahasra, with the goal of creating waters that affirm one's position. They say, okay, the Sahashra, it's the best state of consciousness, number one. It's the crown, it's the pinnacle. We're just going to stay in the Sahasra and we're going to go through. The motions and sort of pretend that. We are accessing altered states of consciousness. Which Sahasra people can do quite easily. Because the Sahashra is without guna. It's the point of clarity. And so you can experience other people's. Expressions of consciousness and you can pick up on them very easily from the. Sashra, but it doesn't mean that you're actually operating from those states. And so what these New Age programs. Do is they get a lot of. Sahasra people together and then they expose. Them to conditions that replicate altered states of consciousness without actually shifting. And so the danger is pretty much removed, but so is the reward. You've got to take risk. You've got to really throw yourself into. The shit if you want to actually. Have the full experience. The further you're willing to go into. The depths of these altered states of consciousness that will determine what type of transcendent experience you can have. And most of what is taught is Yoga. The vast majority of what is taught is Yoga. And almost all of what is taught as Kundalini is utter bullshit. Now, if you were to go to. India to an agori cult or to find a tantric master in the outskirts of the city, they would show you the real shit. But that's not where people are going to. People are going to these, these really. Overpriced, like, resort experiences, essentially, so that. They can have this experience. And then maybe it makes them feel good. Yes, but it doesn't achieve the goal of Kundalini, which is to experience the fullest possible expression of one's potential. And you got to be willing to get far outside of your comfort zone. Far outside of your familiar waters to. Be able to do that. So let's talk about that. Let's talk about transcendence and some of. The practices that are utilized in Viagra Yoga in the right hand path within. This school in order to reach transcendence. So we're advancing through the Kundalini practice. Through each of the chakras. The meditative exercise that we employ in. Order to access the Sahasra is different. From all of the other exercises. It's quite different because we actually begin at the muladhara and we move to. Each chakra slowly, building the energy. When we're doing this, we're reflecting on the journey, we're reflecting on the journey. Up the mountain, and we are dissolving. The differences between these states. Because, as I said, the Sahasha is without guna. So it is a point of clarity. Where you are transcending that which is Tamas, that which is rajas, that's which is Sattva. And so there is this blending process. Within the final meditative exercise. And then you bring all of the prana, you bring the Kundalini serpent to the crown, and then you feel the penetration of the skull and eruption of. The thousand petal lotus. So for some people, when they experience this eruption of consciousness of the Sahashra, transcendence is achieved immediately. There is no need for any further exercise. But that's only some people. And what's really a shame with the. Degradation of yoga in the new age is that there's an expectation placed upon. Kundalini that when you reach the Sahashra. Boom, you're enlightened, you've achieved transcendence. And that's just not the case for most people. For most people, once you reach the Sahasra, what you've done is you've reached an altered state of consciousness and you don't have an immediate transcendent experience. It's possible, but it's rare. There are monks who spend 20, 30, 40, 60 years in an ashram and. Still don't have that kind of transcendent experience. So it can take a long time. It took me. Many years of practice. 15 years of practice in order to reach that stage. Now, in the process of struggling through. That, I was able to identify quite a few shortcuts or ways to access power with much greater intensity to where, you know, I can bring somebody to a transcendent experience in maybe a year of practice. But it takes intense dedication. The more that you're willing to put into the process of reaching transcendence. The more you're willing to throw yourself. Out of your comfort zone, the easier it will be for you to reach that transcendent point. You're going to get more out of the experience based upon how much you are willing to give. Now, when you reach the crown and. You'Ve accessed the Shastra, you can have that transcendent experience, or you might have to apply further exercises. What you must do is turn your. Awareness towards God consciousness. So here we have perception and application of the will. This is extremely important to understand. The cosmos has two grand potentialities. Either everything is unified at the monistic. Point, or you exist in differentiation. And these two things because time is not linear. We exist in an eternal cosmos that can be perceived as cyclical, but the cyclical nature is itself illusion and it can be escaped. But the perception that you apply in. Assessing the nature of the cosmos is an aspect of will, expression of will. I will myself to perceive that the. Cosmos is differentiated, or I will myself. To perceive that the cosmos is unified and depending upon the manner in which you direct your will, that is how prana is directed towards a specific outcome. So there's two approaches you have to take. First, if your goal is to continue. On the left hand path after you. Have completed the right hand path, then. You have to establish a necessary anchor. Now that anchor can be established for. You by an external presence such as. A guru, which is very common in the Vajrayana tradition of Buddhist Tantra, where. You have a specific meditation of drawing the essence of the guru through the Sahasra into the Anahata. The Anahata is the seat of that anchor point that is going to allow. You to apply the necessary will in. Order to overcome the paradox of unification. And differentiation existing simultaneously within the cosmos. Because it is a paradox. How can the cosmos be both unified and differentiated simultaneously? It doesn't make any sense. It's not supposed to make sense. It only ever makes any sense from an individuated perspective. For example, I can make sense of the fact that there is such a thing as unification. I can identify it. I can understand it mathematically. I know I can examine the nature of the physical world. And I can know that everything has. The same physical foundation. It's made of the same stuff, right? So it must have the same origin point. But of course, the idea of an origin point is absurd in a universe that is eternal. But it's useful. It's useful because time is a tool that can be applied in order to. Direct Your perception in such a way that you can have the magical outcome. That you are seeking. So if I choose to recognize linear time as part of a magical function, then I can see that there is a foundation, an origin point for everything around me. And that origin point is oneness, is God consciousness. Okay? So I'm recognizing this origin point of God consciousness. If I recognize this origin point and I choose to take that perception, it has an effect. It has an effect on me. It has an effect on my surroundings. Because the manner in which I perceive. The universe is defined by the axis mundi, the spine. In Tantra, the spine is recognized as the center of the universe. And it is through the spine that the nervous system spreads throughout the body. So this is how we perceive the. Universe through the nervous system. It's the foundation of our experience. It is the physical foundation, the muladhara, which, as I said in Sanskrit, means root of existence. So we have the spine, okay? From the spine, I can direct my. Perception in a magical process to be. Able to create the conditions that will. Allow me to achieve one of those two states, either unification or differentiation. Now, it's important to have some awareness before you are advancing towards the Sahashra. Before you take that final leap into. The Sasha meditation, to know whether you are seeking unification or you're seeking differentiation. You don't have to know for certain. You just have to have a general idea. Because the experience that you have is going to possibly cause a shift anyway. And lead to an outcome that may be unexpected, but is ultimately in alignment with your dharma. But you need to have some general perspective, because the intention that you set. Is going to color your experience. So let's say this is the Left Hand Path school. So everyone here generally has an idea. That when they complete the Right Hand. Path, they're going to be advancing to the Left Hand path path of self realization. So you all are creating anchors. To create an anchor, you have to go through a process of recognizing something. That possesses the necessary will to counteract. The rejection of one's will. Because in order to dissolve, you have. To retreat your will. Everything that exists within material differentiation has some expression of will. Otherwise it wouldn't exist. The will is the foundation of your being within this cosmos. So your material foundation is the foundation of your existence in the Kali Yuga. But your existence in the cosmos itself, outside of the Yugic cycle, is an aspect of willpower which is at the Anahata. Which is why the Anahata, the central point of all consciousness, is the basis for the Left Hand Path, everything that comes after transcendence. When you're practicing right hand path Kundalini, you always begin in that state, which is the growth state. So for now, it's the Muladhara. Because we're in the Kali Yuga. It if we were in the Satya. Yuga, the growth state would be the. Sahasra, and we would see the Muladhara as the peak. But right now, the foundation of existence. In the Yuga cycle, in the Kali. Yuga, is the Muladhara, but in the cosmos itself, it's the Anahata. And so if you're trying to escape the cycle of time, which is one of the aspects of transcendence, you have got to do so from the heart. And it is within the heart and will that we find expressions of passion. Now, passion in its purest form is irrational. It just is. You have passion for something because you just do. That is the expression of will from a passionate standpoint. Now, this is extremely powerful because it is through passionate expression that you are. Able to overcome a paradox. So the paradoxical nature of both the. Monistic point and differentiation existing simultaneously within the cosmos cannot be overcome through the mind. You can begin to explore it through. The mind, and that's fine, but it. Can'T be overcome by the mind, because you will go mad trying to apply reason in order to understand that which is spiritual. It's experiential, but it can't be fully. Grasped by the mind. So how do you overcome this? Well, where there's a will, there's a way. You have to possess such an intense passion, or there has to be some. Presence of an intense passion within the cosmos that is connected to your individuated. Form that allows for the destruction of that paradox. And when you reach transcendence, what you're. Doing is you are advancing between that which is unified and that which is differentiated. And you're smashing the two potentialities together at once. You're saying, I am denying my will. To continue to exist in a differentiated form. But simultaneously, the anchor that is present. Within your heart will not allow you to dissolve fully. Now, for some people, the anchor is not strong enough, and they do dissolve. There are people who have performed Kundalini. And reach the Sahashra and have died. Immediately as a result of the practice because their will to exist faltered and they did not want to continue. They were dissolved into the clear light. But if the necessary anchor is present. In whatever form it may take, the. Passion that is expressed burns through with. Total irrationality, burns through the paradox of. Unification and differentiation existing simultaneously. And that's when you transcend everything. You transcend duality. You transcend non duality. You transcend all. And from this point of transcendence, you can taste dissolution. You can taste differentiation. And you can indulge in one aspect or the other. You can choose to be dissolved. Or you can choose to be differentiated. And this is reincarnation. And it is when you have achieved. This reincarnation. That you are able to exist with indulgence rather than compulsion as your foundation. And at any point in time, when it's necessary, you can put yourself in. That place of transcendence. In order to exist in clarity. But it requires clear waters. And you can't be stagnant, because stagnant waters breed disease. You have to be flowing. You have to be one with the cosmic flow. And if you can be one with the cosmic flow. And you can overcome all of the. Potential maladjustments in the Sahasra. And you can overcome all of the maladjustments that you experience in each state of consciousness. As you advance up the mountain. And if you have the necessary passion. Finally you reach the peak and you have success. And the right hand path comes to a close. The right hand path is not a lifestyle. It's a mission. And when you come to that final stage of the mountain. And you realize your potential for transcendence, whatever that may be, it's dharmic. It's related to your nature, how far you can go. And there's no right answer other than that which is natural to you, that which is dharmic to you. When you reach that point, you've made it. And that's when many, many new paths are open to.