# rtt lecture - Mamsa - Ritual Blood and Meat Consumption in Yoga

Tonight we're going to discuss the ritual consumption of meat and blood in yoga. Now, when most people think of yoga, they conjure up images of hippies in vegan restaurants in California or some shit like that. But the consumption of meat and the brutality that is associated with the harvesting of meat has been an important part of Aryan tradition and therefore an important part of yoga for thousands of years. So if you associate yoga with veganism and peace and tranquility, only you can throw that out. Yoga is not confined to the mainstream. And I won't even call it sattvic element, because that's what they're trying to touch upon. They're trying to touch upon the sattvic, but they can't even access the true nature of the sattvic. The new age of appropriation of yoga is just some kind of leftist disease. It's like spiritual AIDS that turns in on itself and rots everything that is firm and strong about the body. And in Tantra, we are trying to gain power so we are not limiting ourselves to practices which are degrading to the self. And most of this leftist new age appropriation of yoga is rooted in absolute spiritual degradation. Now I'm not saying that the right wing appropriation of yoga is any better because there's problems with that as well. But if you're practicing tantra, real tantra, you can find a dharmic expression of diet, you can find a diet that works for you and empowers you. And in order to do that, you've got to release yourself from dogma. And there is a shitload of dogma in the esoteric circles of the world, in new age yoga circles, concerning the consumption of meat, blood and killing and violence which are associated with the consumption of meat and blood. So we're gonna talk about that tonight in great detail. And while we talk about the consumption of meat and blood, we're going to consider how this relates to the Tantric practice of Ayurveda. Now, in Tantra, we have the practice of Vamajjara, which is the left hand. And in the left hand, because we are adversarial to dogma, we are going out of our way to liberate ourselves from the social norms that would restrict our power. We utilize taboo substances. There's a reason why these substances are taboo. It's because they are barriers to transcendence. On the right hand path, when you consume meat or alcohol or when you have sex, you are exposing yourself to raw physicality, the material aspects of unrefined shakti and in doing so, there's a potential that you are drawing your body deeper into the physical world, the material. And since we are born connected like a Siamese twin to the material world, and it's hard to pick ourselves up from the ground and start taking steps towards transcendence, any consumption these substances that is not done with awareness, with intention, can be a barrier to the development of greater power. Now, of course, if you're applying slave morality in the context of yoga, as so many New Agers do, you're going to look at these substances as dirty, evil things that need to be totally annihilated. In the Hindutva inspired nationalism that we see in contemporary India, there is a really Abrahamic embrace of the taboos surrounding these substances, especially meat. There have been many reported instances of butchers being attacked by Hindu nationalists who see the production of meat, commercial consumption of meat, as a great evil that needs to be stamped out. Of course, as Tantriks, we don't believe in good and evil, we just believe in power and methods of gaining power. And it just so happens that meat is one of the best methods, best substances for gaining power. Of course it's poisonous. It's poisonous in a metaphysical sense and it can be poisonous in a physical sense as well. So we need to use it with intention and awareness. But it is a source of power. And any dietary dogma that tells you that meat can never be consumed in a yogic context, that if you consume meat, you cannot be considered a siddha, they are wrong. They have no idea what they're talking about. They are shoveling you a bunch of dogmatic that has come about as a result of the Abrahamic rot advancing in the New Age and in Hindutva in India. So we're going to shove all that aside tonight and we're going to talk about the real nature of meat and blood in yogic ritual. In Bamashara, we have the five M's. The five M's are taboo substances that are utilized by Tantrics in order to gain greater power. And these are taboo substances because of all the reasons I've given, they are poisonous, they scare people, they keep you from achieving transcendence. But if you have achieved transcendence and if you're operating with awareness in the use of these substances, or if you're in a yogic practice that's being guided by a siddha who knows how to apply these substances in such a way that they can be used as a springboard for advancement in your ascending path, then these substances may be Considered great sources of power, very potent substances. And one of those substances is mamsa. Mamsa is a Sanskrit word that is associated with meat. But we wouldn't translate mamsa to meat. In English, it is associated with meat. When we say mamsa in the context of the five end. Excuse me, in the context of the five M's, we are talking about meat. But mamsa means something else. It means God into me. God into me. That tells us a lot about the nature of meat. In a yogic practice. If you're consuming a substance that is intended to bring the essence of God into you, that tells you something about the power of that substance. Mamsa is divine. Meat is a pathway to the expression of godhood in the self. And when we consume meat in yogic ritual, we are taking the essence of that substance of mamsa. We are absorbing that pranic essence into our bodies, and we are increasing the power of the root of the self, which is associated with the muladhara and divine femininity. So ultimately, the consumption of mamsa in a yogic context is a shakta practice. We are increasing the amount of shakti in the body when we consume mamsa. As I said before, most people who are consuming meat are doing so compulsively, and they're eating too much of it. And this is what leads to health problems in the consumption of meat. Now, you can have health problems resulting from too little meat or too much meat. And the impact of your consumption, or lack thereof is related to your dharma, as all things are. Every individual has to determine the amount of mansa that is good for their body. And the only way you can know how much mamsa is good for you is through yoga. But how many people are practicing yoga? I mean, real yoga? How many people are aware of tantra, real tantra? Not very many. It's a very elitist practice. So most people are operating from a state of absolute, unrefined divine femininity that is drawing them towards insane over consumption of mamsa and the other taboo substances. And when we look upon those people, we should not base our experience in the consumption of meat, other taboo substances. We should not base our experience on their behavior. All of these population studies that dietitians conduct, scientists conduct researching the health benefits or lack thereof associated with meat or other substances, they are examining populations that exist in unrefinement. These individuals are of a shudra nature, and they should not be considered examples for the experience that we will have as yogins because we have command over our bodies in such a way that we can experience the consumption of these substances without many of the negative repercussions of that are found in compulsion. So as yogins, we have to look at those studies with a great deal of skepticism. And we really need to focus more on our individuated experience in the consumption of these substances. Because we are not normal people, we are not shudra. We are acting from a place of greater awareness and access to pranic channels within the body that allows for the consumption of many of these substances in ways that benefit us rather than bring us to compulsion. Unfortunately, most discussions surrounding diet or any practice at all focuses on these population studies rather than looking at examples of individuals who are utilizing a specific diet or a specific exercise regimen to achieve excellence. And since we are yogins pursuing excellence, those are the individuals, those are the examples that we should be focusing upon with full awareness that our experience, because we possess our own individuated dharma, our experience might be different. Now, let's examine the consumption of mamsa through the framework of Ayurveda. So in Ayurveda, we have the datus, and the datus are the essential structures of the physical body. There are eight datus, and one of the datus is the mamsa dhatu. So the mamsadhatu is the structure of the body that is associated with the consumption of meat. When we eat meat, we are feeding the mamsadhatu. And there are other substances as well that feed the mamsadhatu. But essentially this is a structure that is fed primarily by means, meat, blood and bone. Now, what are the various aspects of the mamsadhatu? We have thula. This is bulk. So any physical element of the body that carries bulk is an aspect of thula. We have srira, and srira is stability, guru, which is the weight or the heavy aspect of the body, kathina, hardness, and shlakshna, which is smoothness. So with smoothness, we're talking about like smoothness in the organs and the skin, things like that. These are all fed by mamsa. So if you want to cultivate these elements in the body, you need to consume mumsa, that is the prana that you feed into your body in order to build those elements. So far I focused on the physical aspect, but there is a metaphysical aspect as well. When we talk about bulk or stability or hardness, yes, there's a physical element to that, but there's also a subtle metaphysical element. We're Going to get more into that later. But just to give you a preview, if you want to be hard in character, if you want to be stable in your disposition, you want to consume substances that promote that condition within the self. And meat is one of those substances. It allows us to cultivate a connection to the muladhara, to the blood, and the stable, willful expression of earthiness in divine femininity. We become like a rock when we consume mamsa. Okay. There are other elements as well that are associated with the that is the snayu, which are the ligaments of the body, and the twak, which is the skin. So these are the main structures in the body where we see the formation of the mamsadhatu. Everything is formed around these structures. Okay? And so here we have an example of how Tantra is applied to assess pranic channels in anatomy. Anatomy is not owned by modern medicine. The ancient yogins were assessing the relationship between specific substances that are consumed and the expression of these substances in the physical body. Long before modern medicine, and with much greater complexity, we can obviously learn things from modern medicine. Advancements have been made in surgical procedures, and Tantra does not run counter to those advancements. But what Tantra says is that there is far more complexity to the consumption of these substances than what is represented in modern medicine. Like I said, there's a metaphysical component to the consumption that's not discussed at all in modern medicine. Okay, so those individuals who consume meat, who consume mamsa in the context of Ayurveda, what qualities are they said to possess? We have shama, which is the forgiving nature, dhruti, which is decision making, decisiveness, alalya, which is benevolence. And we have arjava, which is humility. What's interesting about these character traits is that they all are associated with the muladhara when it's operating in a healthy manner. For example, a forgiving nature. The muladhara is a state of consciousness or a component of consciousness that is associated with flexibility. When you think about disorder, you think about the ability to absorb things that are outside of expectation. Expectation comes from order. When you're able to design a system with very clear expectations as to the outcome, you develop a certain taste for outcome. And if the outcome does not fulfill that expectation, that's when problems start to arise. So people who are labeled as autistic, a lot of these people just have really intense expectations for outcome with no flexibility. And so if things don't go their way, they can have a fit over it they can feel very disturbed by things not going their way. Well, that's because they have an underdeveloped muladhara. The Muladhara is associated with forgiveness because if you experience physical reality, you will know that the chaotic nature of the cosmos brings people to mistakes, it brings people to chaos, and this is unavoidable. If you're going to exist as an individuated form within the cosmos, you have to have compassion or you will drive yourself insane. And that compassion and that humility comes from the muladhara. Primarily. It is the opposite of the Sahasra. The Sahasra is the place of pride, and that's where you have this really intense expectation for order and purity. But the muladhara is not about purity. It's about willingness to get your hands dirty. And so if you're going to get your hands dirty in order to survive, or not just survive, but thrive, then you have to have empathy and compassion for others who get their hands dirty. And if you don't develop that compassion, you can turn in on yourself. You can begin to develop internal contradictions that are a source of great pain and confusion. That's an aspect of the Muladhara that's not often discussed because most people want to focus on the raw, primal sexuality or the raw, primal violence of things. But the muladhara is a place of great humility and understanding and forgiveness, and that needs to be recognized and it needs to be cultivated. Okay? So there are vital points in the body which are associated with the mamsadhatu. And if these vital points experience any sort of damage, this can lead to disease. So we need to be aware of these vital points and recognize the relationship between our consumption of meat and the improvement of the health of these vital points. We have the four points in the midpoint of the palms and the soles of the feet. So if you think about the nature of the muladhara, getting your hands dirty, hard work in nature, the life of a farmer, the soles of the hands and the soles of the feet are very important for creating that stability and that hardness, that ability to take raw material and transform it. If you have a well developed. Excuse me, Devouliped. If you have a well developed muladhara, there's going to be some roughness to your hands, there's going to be some roughness to the soles of your feet, because this means that you're getting out and you're touching the material world, you're touching nature, you're doing work with your hands. In a material sense. So in order to develop the health of the muladhara, you want to do work with your hands. You want to walk barefoot on the earth. Now, of course, if you do too much of this, you can overdo this. Then you can destroy the health of your hands, you can destroy the health of your feet. So you don't want to be a slave working in the fields all day long. That's not healthy for the development of the muladhara. That leads to a collapse in the health of the muladhara. But you do want to have enough of a relationship with raw physical reality that the body becomes hardened by that experience. Existing in nature and consuming meat, living that kind of life, helps to build the health of the muladhara. Other vital points include the middle of the forearms, the calves, the rectum and anal canal, which most people have destroyed that by either eating way too much meat or not eating any at all. And the upper part of the nipples and the breasts, which shows the connection between the consumption of meat and healthy motherhood. Well, developed breasts are associated with healthy connection to the muladhara. So also a developed chest for men, muscular chest, also associated with health in the muladhara. Of course, this can be taken to extremes and you can develop illness as a result of over development of these areas. But if you find dharmic balance in these vital points, this is a good indication of the condition of the muladhara and your connection to shakti. Now, in Tantra we have an assessment of the common conditions which are associated with over consumption or under consumption of a given substance. So this is the vriti lakshana of mamsa. So this is the increased consumption of meat or other substances that are associated with the mamsa structure, the mamsa dhatu in the body. And what are those symptoms? Well, we have an increase in the size of the lips, cheeks, arms and chest beyond what would be a dharmic balance. We have a general heaviness in the body. Now, heaviness in the body is not necessarily bad, but for many people it is bad. It restricts movement and it reduces capacity for other forms of activity. It promotes a slothful nature that can be problematic. So too much heaviness in the body can be a great barrier to advancement in your yoga practice. And then we have restricted movement. So restricted movement is a major problem that I see with a lot of people who have gone too far with momsa, especially bodybuilders. I've had bodybuilders come into my group, asana Classes where they can hardly even move their arm above their head and they can't perform any asana whatsoever. So they have created such restriction in their body that their body becomes dysfunctional. They can't use their body, and so they can't know their body with the subtlety that they may otherwise be able to access if they had not overdevelop the mamsa dhatu. And over development of the mamsadhatu is not just associated with overconsumption of meat. Bodybuilding practices in our contemporary culture are unhealthy for most people. Use of steroids, consumption of unhealthy supplements, unhealthy weightlifting programs that bring the body into disbalance. This is a major problem in our contemporary environment. And the fitness industry crassly promotes these practices for the sake of making money, with no consideration for the impact of these practices on consciousness or the overall health of the population. Which is a shame, because many of these individuals who are interested in bodybuilding want to improve themselves. They want to become strong, but their definition of strength becomes so narrow that they are compelled by shakti. And the extent to which they can increase their power is drastically limited by these bodybuilding routines that are sold to them by marketers, not by individuals who have much awareness of the holistic nature of consciousness in the body. Now, what do we see in individuals who experience the shaya lakshana or the under consumption of mamsa? Well, we have decrease in the size of the hips, neck, abdomen, lips, arms, chest, basically a decrease in the musculature of the individual. And this is very common in vegans, for example, who restrict the consumption of meat entirely. And this creates disbalance where they cannot develop muscles in the body without the use of things like steroids, dryness of the skin, fatigue, joint pain, and a deep craving for meat and blood because the body is screaming for sustenance. And this is something that a lot of vegans actually experience. Most of them don't want to admit it, but they will reach a point where, yes, their body is crying out for nutrients and they are starving themselves of nutrients, often for some moralistic standard that is totally based in slave morality. So before we talk about the nature of slave morality as it relates to Momsa, I want to briefly discuss kishari mudra and its relationship to the mind. So kishari mudra is interesting in that it is a mudra that simulates the consumption of meat. So with kishari mudra, you're bringing your tongue to the roof of Your mouth, you're trying to bring it back to the sinus cavity. And when you do this, it creates a feeling in your mouth like there's something of sustenance that you are consuming. You can hold this mudra for a very long time. And what happens is your body starts to believe that you are consuming meat, and this stimulates shakti. Now, with kashari mudra, you are silencing the throat. You are silencing the vishuddhi. If you're one of those individuals that has a hard time shutting off your mind, allowing yourself a rest from contemplation, then kishari mudra is a powerful practice as well as the general development of the muladhara, because Shakti liberates us from contemplation when necessary. So if you're the kind of person who can't sleep at night because you're plagued by crazy thought loops, or all day long, you're thinking, thinking, thinking, and never actually doing or acting upon anything, you're falling into neurosis. What you need to do is you need to move your body. You need to get out into nature, you need to eat meat. You need to do things that stimulate the muladhara and your connection to the Mother, the Divine Mother. And we need this as a general rule. Most of us, at least, we need this because we live in a world that is so sterile and divorced from the natural world, we very rarely have an opportunity to get out and connect with our primal nature. We need to do that. If we don't do that, we become domesticated and weak and pathetic. So we need shakti. We need to get our hands dirty. We need to be willing to get our hands dirty. The system is interested in weakening you by domesticating you and placing you in increasingly sterilized environments. Until you are totally divorced from the muladhara and the blood body. They want you to have no connection to physicality. Because if you have connection to physicality and you're willing to assert your position in a physical sense, that's a great threat to the system. They don't want that. They want you to be passive. And that's why they're promoting increasingly sattvic diets. Now, I'm not saying that a sattvic diet is necessarily bad. From time to time, I eat a vegan diet in order to clear out my system. If I find that there's an imbalance, I'll go on a short term vegan diet. But it is something that I do momentarily because it increases my power. I don't do it out of any sort of moral dogma, okay? And they're promoting moral dogma. The system is promoting moral dogma in order to get you to accept a slave diet so that they can cut you away from your blood. That's what they're doing. So a great act of rebellion against the system is, is to eat meat, to drink blood, to go out into the woods, to walk barefoot in the grass, to become one with nature. That's a great source of rebellion against the system. Another thing I want to talk about is the nature of prana. When you consume any substance, when you consume something, you absorb an aspect of its prana. And this can be metaphysical and it can be physical. For example, if you're drinking goat's milk, goat's milk is a combination of tamas and rajas. So you are stimulating the physical element of the body, the earthiness, the groundedness, and you're also stimulating fire. The goat is associated with the manipura and milk is associated with the muladhara. So think about that. If you're consuming a lot of goat's milk, you're taking on the essence of the goat. And this is true in the consumption of anything. When Aghoris practice cannibalism, they are taking the prana of human beings, which is powerful, very powerful. When they chew on the bones of dead bodies, they're taking the prana from the human beings that have died and they're absorbing it into their body and they're increasing their strength by doing this. Obviously this is something that is deeply frowned upon in our culture. But in India, where it's also frowned upon, they could still get away with it in the cremation grounds. So next time you eat something, think about the nature of the things that you're eating. Think about the guna associated with those things. Is this the essence that you want to absorb? Do you want to absorb the essence of lucky charms? Maybe you do. Maybe that will be helpful for you. Maybe it's not something you want in your body. Do you want to absorb the essence of a T bone steak? Maybe, maybe not. You really are what you eat, so you need to be aware of that. Now, there are ways in Yoga of burning up that prana so that it never really enters your body and it doesn't reflect itself in a metaphysical way. There are ways of doing this. Most people don't have access to those channels. So most people are entirely shaped by what they consume. And that's another reason why consumer culture is so sinister. The system can literally design a type of human that they want to create. And they can create a consumer culture that allows them to stamp out copies of that human type over and over again based upon whatever is being fed to the people. That's not just in regards to their diet, but anything they consume, media, TV, YouTube videos, music, all of these things can be used to create and stamp out clones of a given human type and create an entire civilization of slaves, which is what the system has successfully done. Now, if we want to escape the conditions of slavery, then we have to consume things with awareness and know that what we're consuming is good. So the meat that we eat, we want to eat meat that offers us good prana. We want to find good prana in all of the things that we consume. We want to be aware of this. We don't want to become neurotic about it, because that's going to cause its own problems. And we want to be flexible in the consumption. But the main thing that we need to consider is, does this substance serve my dharma? If it does, then it's good to consume. And if it doesn't, then it's bad to consume. Don't let any moral dogma or propaganda lead you away from listening to your body, knowing your body, and understanding what is good for you to consume. Now, along the lines of consumption and prana, let's talk about sex. Because sex practices are an important way of developing mamsa and that connection with the divine feminine. Now, specifically, oral sex in Tibetan Tantric tradition. One of the great controversies that was observed was this epidemic of Buddhist monks performing oral sex on women. And this was a big controversy. It's like, what the fuck? What are they doing in the ashram, in the temple, performing oral sex on all these women? Well, what they were doing was they were consuming the prana of the woman. Now, women can do the same. If they perform oral sex on a man or a woman, they can consume prana. The consumption of semen, which is known as amrita in the Tantric tradition, is an important practice for gaining access to very powerful blood magic. Ritual consumption of semen, ritual practice of oral sex. These are ways of improving the health of the muladhara and connecting to the divine feminine. And you can, through the practice of oral sex, develop a much closer connection to someone because you can willfully absorb the prana of the individual that you are having sex with. Now, one of the reasons why the Christian church almost had a Freudian slip, one of the reasons why the Christian church has had this fucking problem with oral sex for so long is because it's associated with witchcraft. And for good reason. It is witchcraft if it's practiced with intention. So, yeah, that's why the church is so concerned with what goes on in your bedroom, because they know that if people start willfully practicing sex magic or blood magic in a yogic context, that would be the end of them. Now, consumption of blood, as I said at the beginning of this lecture, the consumption of blood has for a very long time been an important part of Aryan culture and by extension, yoga. And so what is the reason as to why the Aryans were so interested in the consumption of meat and blood? The reason is because Arianism is a shakta tradition. It is associated with the divine feminine and connection and affirmation of life within the material. This is in contrast with those traditions that are directed towards the divine Father, such as the Jewish tradition. Now, the willful consumption of blood and the creation of spiritual cults surrounding the art of killing are very important in yoga. The idea is that through hunting, through warfare, through bloodshed, you can develop a much deeper connection to the material world. You can develop a connection to shakti and you can understand your place within the cosmos. Many people who promote pacifism are not able to access shakti properly because they're unwilling to recognize the fact that existence in a material form, immanent expression, requires destruction of some sort. You must consume in order to exist. God is found in violence and bloodshed. And so you have to be willing to do this. Now, if you are going to commit acts of violence such as killing an animal and eating it, in order to achieve the greatest expression of power that you possibly can, which is the goal of Tantra. If you're going to do this, you need to do it with intention. You need to do it with a full understanding of the nature of what you are doing. Because as I said, blood and meat, these are great poisons. They are intoxicating. You can be easily overtaken by bloodshed, just as Mahakali was overtaken by bloodshed in her war against the Asura. Even the gods are overtaken by mamsa. So when we apply intention in our consumption of meat or blood, what we are doing is we're applying awareness of the fact that if I continue to consume this thing and I do not check myself to see whether or not shakti has overtaken me, I will lose myself. I will become like the unwashed masses who are compelled to consume. When we consume as yogins, we must do so with as little compulsion as possible. We must indulge in the consumption. So all of these complex rituals that have been developed in the various Aryan traditions in ancient Greece, in Rome, in Germany, in India, these rituals provide the necessary context for us to know that our consumption is indulgent. So what can we do with this understanding? Well, we can recognize that the power that Aryan civilizations have accessed in the past, much of it has been fed by a willingness to embrace bloodshed and the divinity within blood and meat. Take, for example, the Aryan conquerors that spread across Europe and North Asia. They were powerful partially because of their pastoral nature. They raised cattle, and in raising cattle, they were able to gain access to Momsa. Now think about that. When you are raising cattle, you can't just be in a state of unrefined shakti. You have to apply differentiation. You have to be smart. You have to create a structure, a container for the cow. Now, that's really interesting because the cow is a muladhara animal, and it is associated with Shakti and it is associated with Dharma, the Dharma bull. One of the reasons why the bull is associated with dharma in yoga and the Aryan tradition is because if you don't have respect for the mother, you will lose your entire civilization. You will lose your state. The state will crumble. Now, the state does not just exist as an external structure. I'm not just talking about governmental structure of society, because each one of us, we are a state. And so when you look out at the world and you see the conditions of society and the nature of the state, those conditions can exist within you. The dharma bull exists outside of you, and it exists within you. And the relationship that you have to that bull determines whether or not you are controlled by the Momsa or you are controlling the Momsa. Are you in the middle of a stampede, or are you roping the cattle? Are you punching the cows? Are you leading them to where they need to be to give you power, to give you sustenance? This is the tantra of the cowboy, which is actually the foundation of every Aryan civilization is the cowboy pastoralism. The taking of the animal of Shakti, placing her in a healthy container, treating her with respect, and then when the time comes, consuming her, bringing her essence into your body to make you powerful. And that happens inside of each one of us, and it happens in society. And right now, if you look out at the world, you'll see that the cowboy, the man on the white horse, creating healthy containers for Shakti, building an empire, Manifest destiny. Taking land by force, by bloodshed if necessary, not out of compulsion, but out of a recognition of power and Dharma. That condition, incredibly rare, but it will grow. And it grows within us. We have to be the cowboys. We have to be the ones who create the condition for the Dharma bull to thrive. We have to be the ones to eat the meat and drink the blood, make ourselves strong in the body, keeping a good head on our shoulders and riding off into that new frontier.