# The Right-Hand Path Part 7 - The Ajna

The Ajna. So the Ajna is probably the most misunderstood state of consciousness of all of the seven human chakras, primary human chakras. And that's because there have been a lot of positive elements attached to the Ajna which have convinced the masses, or not the masses, but those who operate within esoteric circles that the Ajna, or the third eye, is somehow this place of infinite bliss, and that once you reach the Ajna, you will have access to all the tools required for transcendence, and you'll live this tranquil life in this endless sattvic peace. But for most people, this couldn't be further from the truth, because unless you were born into Ajna consciousness as your rooted state, traveling into the third eye and accessing subtle space from that position is, for most people, one of the most horrifying experiences that you can possibly have. And there's many reasons for this, but one of the primary reasons is because there is not a proper container for accessing and operating within the Ajna. In our contemporary age, things are changing because we are shifting from the age of the Vishuddhi to the age of the Ajna, and therefore new containers are being constructed. Unfortunately, most of these containers have taken on that foundational myth within the new age that the third eye is this place of infinite bliss. And so when the negative aspects of the Ajna begin to manifest, the New age offers very little in the way of explaining why these negative manifestations occur and how to address them. And so, within this talk, we're going to get down into the depths of the dark waters of the Ajna and really understand what it's about and how it relates to the right hand path and advancing towards the transcendent point. So, as I said, the Ajna is also known as the third eye. From a physical standpoint, it is a state of consciousness that is related to the pineal gland and the limbic system in general. So when you're dealing with meditative exercises that are intended to shift your consciousness within this school, at the moment that you hear in the guided meditation that you must bring the air to the center of your brain and then allow it to descend, when you're bringing the air that you breathe to the center of your brain in a meditative exercise, what you're doing is you're activating the Ajna, which is the bridge to the spirit within our bodies, and then you're bringing the spiritual essence down into the chakra, the specific focus point where it rests. Now, why would we do this? Well, we do this because the spirit is the unifying element. So it's communicative. It's communicative within a subtle structure of interaction. So right now I'm communicating with you in both a physical sense. There are vibrations, physical vibrations that are traveling through the air and they're entering into your ear. And you are experiencing sound, which is linked to my physical manifestation and the vocalizations that I'm projecting using my physical body. But I am simultaneously communicating with you in a subtle sense. So I am speaking to you through spirit. I'm speaking to you through the mind. You are experiencing the intellectualization of my expression. You are experiencing my spirit. And the spirit that I represent to you is based upon your individual perception of who I am. Every single person who's listening to this lecture right now has their own perception of who and what I am. And that perception builds a narrative which is linked to spirit. That is what is meant by the spirit of a thing. So, for example, I have this water jug with me. Now, to most of you, this is just water jug. And you see its physical essence and it doesn't really mean anything to you. But to me, this represents something personal. It's my water jug, right? And I purchased this. And I have specific experiences that have shaped, have molded my perception of the spirit of this water jug. And so this is, to me, it's my water jug. To you, it's Skylar's water jug. And it doesn't really matter that much. Or maybe it does. Maybe to you, when you see this water jug, it sparks some kind of interest. Like, is there really water in there or is that just a bunch of Jack Daniels? Anyway, there's a spirit to this jug, right? And you all have your own perception. You have your own perception of me when you see me. We have had personal interactions, and this shapes your perception. So for. For some of you, I am a yoga guru, right? For others, I'm a half retarded cowboy or a full retarded cowboy. You know, I have all of these different spirits of myself. For Ashley, I am, you know, a very special person because she is romantically attached to me. And then for others, I have an attachment that's like a familial attachment. Like, I have brothers, I have a sister, I have a father, I have a mother. They all have their own spiritual relationship to me. And this is part of the unifying web. Now, when we are practicing meditation and I am guiding you into a new state of consciousness, shifting your consciousness, what's happening is that unifying aspect of the spirit is influencing your internal structure somehow. So I am able to, with my communicative elements, both the active and the contemplative, create a change within you. Now, how am I able to do this? There's a physical aspect, of course. There is the fact that I know how to apply the proper cadence, I know how to apply the proper tone in order to make the physical aspect, make the emotional aspect, all those active elements open to the process of shifting consciousness. But there's another element, too. There's a contemplative element, and that's the mind. So I know how to influence the mind in order to be open to that shift. But then there's that final element, the spirit. And it's within the spirit where the miraculous shift occurs. Because most people, I think, would argue that if you're able to, with your words over the Internet or through a phone call, radically alter someone's state of consciousness so that they may experience a rooted state and have shared experiences with other individuals who have shifted into that rooted state without external influence other than what has been received through the meditative exercise. Most people would consider that to be miraculous, magical. Now, of course, we know, because we practice Tantra, that there is magic at every level of the self. There is physical magic, there is emotional magic, there is intellectual magic, there is spiritual magic. But most people, when they talk about magic, what they're talking about is that miraculous element of subtle space. Those things that defy physical categorization. And that begins with the Ajna. The Ajna, therefore, is the seed of the uncanny. That which is difficult to explain because it is that which possesses subtlety. Subtlety because we are advancing towards the subtle body. We have a physical body, the vulgar expression of the self that is material. And it's easy to access. We can feel it, touch it, sense it. We can apply our five senses to confirm its presence. But then we have the subtle body. And the subtle body is a bit more difficult to access because it's not so obvious. That's why it's called the subtle body. You have to search for it. It's always present. There's always some degree of awareness within the self of that which is subtle. But in order to really understand it, to access the core of the subtle body, you have to practice yoga. You have to advance up the spine, moving from the physical, vulgar expression to the subtle expression. And the Ajna is the gateway. It's the black door to the spirit. And when you open that door, you begin to perceive things that go far beyond mundane experience. And these experiences can Be, and often are very disturbing. Because, as I said, there's not a proper container for these experiences currently, outside of this school and a few other occult organizations that provide an honest appraisal of the spirit. Because the spirit isn't all sunshine and rainbows. For most people, when you access the spirit, you are accessing something akin to cosmic horror, Lovecraftian nightmares. But why? Why is subtle space so disturbing? Why is it that the Ajna is the seat of what modern psychology has designated as schizophrenia and bpd? Well, I'm going to tell you why. It's because the Ajna is the seat of lust. Now, when I say the Ajna is the seed of lust, that can lead to some confusion. Because when you think of lust, most of you would probably conjure up images of the physical body lusting after some physical expression of sexuality. But lust in its purest expression is the pursuit of attachment. And it is at the Ajna that attachment as we know it, in a vulgar sense, which is the physical pursuing material. When you reach the third eye, you're reaching the initial point of a total break from the physical senses. And because you have this breakdown of the perception of the physical senses, this creates a crisis of attachment. And so there is an awareness of this sudden lack of attachment. Because between the Vishuddhi, which is the pure seat of mind, and the Sahasra, which is the pure seat of spirit, you have the Ajna. And so there is a combined element of the mind and the spirit, which is a recipe for disaster. Because if you're operating from a pure seat of mind and you experience something that is disturbing, you can rationalize it and you can say, okay, that was fucked up, but maybe I didn't actually see what I thought I saw. Maybe that little gremlin in the corner of the room is just a figment of my imagination. And maybe it is. But when you're operating from the pure seat of mind, you can tell yourself that, and you can believe it, and you can affirm the radical skepticism which allows for purification of experience in the Vishuddhi. On the other end of the spectrum of the contemplative spectrum, if you're in this ashra and you have a disturbing experience, you can literally just dissolve into the experience. You can dissolve into the spirit. You can be like water, and so nothing can really move you. There is a level of detachment in the pure seat of spirit that allows you to distance yourself from any sort of deeper reflection in the mind that would create a complex. But if you exist between these two points, you're going to see the gremlin in the corner of the room, and you're going to be able to feel the essence of that thing and know that it's real. And you're not going to be able to dissolve into the experience because your mind is going to be spinning, it's going to be turning, trying to process what you just experienced. And so, in this middle ground between the solid foundation of contemplation in the Vishuddhi and the dissolving aspect of the Sahashra, we have this terrible, horrifying awareness. And it's in this horrifying awareness that you have lust, lusting after attachment to anything that can offer you comfort when you experience the disturbances of the cosmos. And this is why, for example, the Ajna is associated with bpd, because with bpd, you have an extreme fear that relational attachments will be broken. And as a result of this fear, there is a tendency to develop an intense, insane lust for that thing. Usually it's another person, but it doesn't have to be another person. It can be any object of lust that becomes a point of obsession. But this need to connect is coupled with a lack of physical sensation. Because when you're operating within the Ajna, the adversarial point of consciousness, the adversarial state is the svadistana, and the svadistana is the seat of sensuality, the five physical senses. So if you invert the five physical senses, what do you get? You get someone who experiences very intense disassociation. Disassociation not from the mind, not from the spirit, but from physical reality. And because of this disassociation from the physical reality, an emptiness develops because we exist in a physical age. The foundation of the Kali Yuga is the body, the blood body. So lacking direct access to the blood body in the form of the five senses, in this Father Stana creates a great disturbance. However, those who are born rooted in the Ajna, who remain in that state throughout their life, they can adjust to this. Typically, because they are born in this state, it is their dharma to feel, to experience settled space. And so they are not as deeply disturbed by the disassociation and the awareness of that which is spiritual and intellectual simultaneously, they're not as disturbed as somebody who was not born in this state. So the great danger. And while there are dangers associated with being rooted in the Ajna, the great danger is experienced by those who are not rooted in that state, but are shifted into that state. And those are the individuals who typically would fail to cope with the dangers of the third eye. These are the individuals who would experience a personal crisis if all of a sudden they couldn't feel their body. If all of a sudden they couldn't experience pleasure in the way that they once did. If all of the sudden they had this cosmic awareness of the social hierarchy. But in a subtle sense, the subtle social. The subtle society. Because just as there is a subtle body for individuals, there is a subtle social body. And it's within the subtle social body that we experience the spirit of a given community. So, for example, St. Louis, Missouri, it has a physical presence. The Gateway Arch, Bush Stadium. There's a beautiful art museum there, a beautiful zoo. There's some beautiful parts of the city. And then you also have East St. Louis, which is the number one crime area in the entire United States. And there's a physical reality to that, right? We can know the streets. We can know what the buildings look like. We can know the general structure, just like we can know this water jug, just like you can know me in my physical structure in the name that I'm given. But there's also a spirit to that place. The way that I perceive St. Louis is different than the way that you perceive St. Louis because I carry a specific relational context that is part of that unifying principle of spirit. So St. Louis, to me represents Cardinals games. Going to Cardinals games when I was a child, or going to the zoo, or visiting the art museum with Ashley. I have beautiful memories of that city. But it also represents danger because I've been in East St. Louis a few times. It's a fucking shithole. It's like your own personal slice of Somalia right in the middle of the United States. And so I have a certain spiritual narrative surrounding that place. So I'm aware of the physical hierarchy, social hierarchy within St. Louis. You know, like, I know the mayor. I know the famous people who live there. I know where to find the people who live in the slums. I know all of these things. I know the hierarchy in a physical sense, but I also know it in a spiritual sense. I know what to expect in terms of the spirit of East St. Louis. I know what to expect in terms of the spirit of the Gateway Arch, what it might inspire in different people according to their relational state, their relational aspect. And so there is a spirit to these places. And when you're operating from the Ajna, it's like you're operating from the Svadistana, but in a contemplative sense. So you have this awareness of the Spiritual hierarchy rather than the physical hierarchy. And you also have awareness of the five senses, but they're not the five material senses. Sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch. They're the five subtle senses. Now, what's the difference? Have you ever just been going about your day and all of a sudden a song pops into your head and you can hear it, you can hear the music, but there are no vibrations traveling through the airwaves, hitting your eardrum, causing you to experience sound, yet you hear music. And that's because you are experiencing subtle hearing. There is also sight. Subtle sight. When you close your eyes and you visualize an image, and it appears to you, whether it's an apple or a cow or a house or whatever, you're seeing something, but you're not seeing it in the physical reality. You're seeing it somewhere else. You're seeing it on the edge of subtle space. It's subtle sight. You're seeing it with your third eye. And there are equivalencies of subtle sense for all the physical senses. And the Ajna is the seat of these subtle sensations. So the Ajna is itself a very sensuous state of consciousness, but it's not sensuous in the physical sense. It's not what most people would consider to be sensuous. It's sensuous in a spiritual sense, in a contemplative sense. So if all of the sudden your physical sensation shifts to spiritual sensation. Well, most people don't have an intense focus placed on subtle sensation. Most people, when they experience sensation, it is in the physical environment. So they're used to that. And so for the most part, they can navigate physical reality quite well. But when you suddenly shift to the Ajna and you experience subtle sensation, it becomes incredibly difficult to navigate the world because all of a sudden you're seeing things, you're hearing things, you're picking up on things that you don't really recognize in your physical environment, but you know they're there. You're hearing voices. You're maybe. Maybe you're seeing things. Maybe you're even, like, tasting colors, things like that. Really weird shit starts to go down when you get into the Ajna. And in the midst of this, it can create quite a bit of confusion. Like, for example, you might start to experience some type of subtle sensation when you see a specific individual. And when you start to experience that subtle sensation, you might begin to develop a specific feeling towards that person that's quite disturbing. And most people don't know how to interpret that because to them, it's like, okay, I'm disturbed, but I don't know why. Well, they don't know why because they haven't gotten their sea legs yet. Because they haven't been taught how to navigate the subtle senses. They haven't been taught how to navigate subtle space. And so these individuals, they are at the mercy of the waves, but like I said, they are at the mercy of the waves without being able to just relax and go with the flow. Because that mental element that is present demands reflection upon the spiritual experience. And this creates intense anger, explosiveness. Because if you can't put your finger on what you're experiencing, but you're disturbed all the time, and you're no longer able to connect with that which gives you comfort, the physical sensations which give you pleasure and happiness, if you can't connect with those things anymore, you're going to be deeply disturbed. You're going to become angry. And of course, this anger will seem totally out of sorts to everyone around you, and it will seem like you're losing your mind because they can't see what's going on inside of you. They can't see what's happening in the contemplative world because all they're seeing is the physical surroundings. And most people are not aware of subtle space. Not only can they not willfully access subtle space, they don't even know what the fuck it is. So if you're displaying these behaviors, it's highly unlikely that anyone, including medical professionals, will be able to save you. We'll be able to help you. By the way, I want to mention just as a side note that neuroscientists have examined activity in the brain associated with bpd. And the area of the brain that is linked to BPD is the limbic system, which the pineal gland is part of. And that's no surprise because as I said, this is a disease of the Ajna. But, you know, I can say this, and I'm making this public statement that BPD is a disease of the Ajna. And of course, medical professionals will say, well, you know, the chakras, this is pseudoscience. We can't know that. But I guarantee you someday they're going to find out that it's the pineal gland that is most activated with BPD that's the basis of it. And then the entire limbic system is affected because it's all part of vyajna. Guarantee you they'll make that discovery someday. But in the meantime, these medical professionals are not doing much to help these people because they can't explain subtle space to them. And they can't explain the subtle senses. And they can't explain why they have this emptiness, why they feel this rage, why they feel this intense lust, this fear of detaching from the physical world. Also schizophrenia, because, like I said, when you're experiencing subtle sensation, you begin to see things, you begin to hear things, you begin to interact with things within subtle space. And some of these things are imaginative, but some of them are real. But for the most part, modern science does not recognize reality of the spirit because the individuals working within science can't access it. And so because they can't access it, they assume that it's not real. But those who practice tantra, they can access the spirit, they can know it experientially. They know that the spirit is real. And they can distinguish, with proper practice the difference between mental space and spiritual space, physical space, emotional space, all these elements. They can recognize the difference. And because they can recognize the difference, they can respond appropriately. They can know when they're imagining something versus when something is actually there. And for the most part, these schizophrenics who are locked up in institutions, they are actually experiencing interaction with entities in subtle space. They are interacting with demons, they are interacting with angels, they are interacting with fairies or whatever you want to call it. They're interacting with things, but this is not generally recognized. And so how can you possibly help these people? You can give them the bare minimum care so that they don't hurt themselves or somebody else, of course, but you can't contextualize their experience for them. Now, there are millions of people, millions of people all around the world who are walking around with what could be classified as mild cases of schizophrenia, because these individuals are rooted in the Ajna and they are interacting with entities and they are interacting with subtle space. But they haven't become enough of a danger to themselves or to other people to warrant any sort of medical intervention. But they could. They could, under the right circumstances, and so could anybody else, because we all have that part of us. We all have the third eye within us. It's present. And so we all have the potential to have these uncanny experiences that can shake the foundation of our understanding of the cosmos, of our understanding of the self, can cause a crisis of understanding, can lead to the manifestation of things like BPD and serious schizophrenia. And so we have to treat the Ajna with great reverence on the right hand path. You can't just dive in and start digging around in there. You've got to Be careful. Gurus like Nithyananda, they're obsessed with moving people to the third eye. They say it's all you need. This is the goal of yoga. Just open the third eye and this is dangerous. This is not sound advice because if you plunge into those depths too quickly, you're going to get pulled under. You're not going to be ready for what you experience. In the Western magic tradition, I associate the ajna with the fishermen. The fisherman exists on the shoreline. You can consider the sand to be the mind. This is the grounding point of that which is contemplative. This is where you get your footing. And the waters are the spirit. And they go on for eternity. The endless blue, just like the blue skin of Shiva. Eternity. And you can wade out into the water and you can get your ankles wet, you can even walk into your knees, to your waist, to your chest. But the further you get out into the ocean, the bigger the waves get, the stronger the pull of the sea. It pulls you, momentum builds and it pulls you deeper and deeper out into the depths. And if you're not careful, if you go too far, you can get lost and you can end up in a mental institution. You can end up hurting yourself, you can end up hurting somebody else. Because there's a lot of dangerous things in those waters waiting for you to slip up, to lose your footing, to forget where you're at. And as soon as that happens, it's over. So when we approach the Ajda in a right hand path practice, we do so with rules, rules of subtle space. If you're going into subtle space, you have to be like the fisherman. You have to have the right equipment. If you're going to be fishing the shoreline, all you need is your net or your fishing pole and you can throw out the net, the net representing the webbing of the cosmos that allows you to focus in on something and pick that specific thing out of the waters. So for example, if you want to bring your awareness to a specific deity and do bhakti work within subtle space, you throw out your net and you take hold of Shiva or Krishna or Kalima and you bring that energy to you with your net. It's focused, but you've got to have a good net. You've got to weave that net. And that's what tantra is about. It's about weaving your net. That's one element. It's about building this webbing, the web of weird, the loom of the fates. And once you have a strong net, you can confidently throw it out and pull out the experience that you're looking for. Now, that's shoreline fishing. That's just dipping your toes in the water. But. But let's say you want to get deep in the subtle space. Practice deep meditative exercises like intense spirit walking or intense lucid dreaming, where you're entering into much more sophisticated layers of subtle space. Well, you need a boat. You need a vessel. You need a solid foundation, and it's got to be seaworthy. And even if you have a good boat, once you get on that boat, you've got to get your sea legs or you're going to get seasick. You've got to get accustomed to walking in subtle space. You've got to become accustomed to reading the signs. And that takes time, it takes practice, and hopefully you have a good navigator. Because if you do this alone, if you go out on the open sea in your little boat with your little sail, by yourself, you can make it. You can. But you better hope you don't run into a big wave, because if the right wave hits you, that boat's gonna flip and nobody's gonna be there to save you. So you want to have a solid boat, and hopefully you have a good navigator. But how do you build that boat? Well, you've got to practice. You've got to understand the sea, the nature of the spirit, and you can do this through many different practices. I'm going to discuss some of the major practices now within the Ajna. Training on the right hand path that will help you to get your sea legs, that will help you to build the necessary vessel, the necessary boat, in order to explore the vastness of subtle space. So your vessel, what is your vessel? The vessel can be many things, but primarily it's your body. Your body, not just in a physical sense, but in a spiritual sense that is the vessel. A vessel can also be a community. It can be many different things. But for what we're discussing tonight, we're going to focus on the body as your boat. Now, in order to construct the necessary components of the body, in order to explore subtle space, you have to have a solid grounding in the mind. And we discussed that in the Vishuddhi lecture. Let's talk about specifically accessing subtle space. Antarctic Stage 6, which is the psychic symbol, creation is a strong foundational practice in operating within the Ajna because you are utilizing the mind and expressing the will in order to create an image where you access subtle sight and you hold your attention on that image, and you try to create that image with as much clarity as possible and keep it solid. If there are distortions in that image, it's a sign that you lack the necessary command over the Ajna in order to effectively navigate subtle space. So you want to practice anthar Mount Stage 6 consistently, and you want to combine it with Antarmona Stage 1. Because with Antarmona Stage 1, when you're practicing your listening exercises, you're not just listening for that which exists in the physical environment. You're listening for that which exists in subtle space as well. Which is why in Antarmona Stage one, you bring your awareness to a point, an imagined point that is as far away from your physical body as possible in the cosmos. Now, you might not be receiving any physical vibrations from that point, but you're still receiving a message. You're hearing a sound. Maybe you're hearing the om, the first word. You're hearing something. You're listening. You're still hearing, even if it's subtle. So there's exercises for exploring all of the different elements of the subtle sense. And one way that you can magnify the intensity of these practices is by willfully reducing the influence of the physical senses. The closing of the Nine Gates is one of the primary meditative exercises that is utilized in order to gain deeper access to the Ajna. But there's other things you can do as well. Preliminary exercises for the closing of the nine gates, also passive exercises for closing different gates of perception. For example, most of the people in the Ajna that I've met have experienced some sort of physical disability. Many of them have problems with their sight. Some are blind. Many have problems with their hearing. Some were born deaf, some are still deaf. Some cannot speak, some cannot feel, some cannot taste. So distortion in the physical senses is a common trait amongst people rooted in the Ajna. Now, you can create this for yourself. For example, you can go through the day, your entire day, wearing earplugs. Why would you do this? Well, because if you're reducing reliance on physical hearing, you're encouraging Prana to shift to subtle hearing. You can also wear an eye patch, because if you remove one eye from your vision, Prana will shift to the third eye to make up for the loss of the one eye. And this is something that is practiced by Odin. When he gives up one of his eyes for knowledge, what he's doing is he's shifting Prana to the third eye so that he gains subtle sight. And you can do this too by wearing an eyepatch or by sitting with your eyes closed for a very long Time, you can also take a vow of silence, because if you are not expressing vocalizations and feeling the physical sensation of vocalization and hearing the vocalization, you're reducing the amount of sensation in the body. You can wear gloves like Michael Jackson and reduce your sensitivity to touch things of this nature. You can get really creative with this in order to experience the world with a reduced reliance upon the physical senses. And this helps to stimulate the Ajna. It helps to bring you in touch with the third eye. One other exercise that is extremely helpful in the Ajna is something called narrative accounting. So the ajna is an interesting seat of consciousness because it's very childlike. And the reason why it's so childlike is because when you're operating from the Ajna, you don't have much of a grounding in the physical reality. And so therefore, your physical identity is not nearly as important. What's important is your spiritual identity. And that can be played with quite a bit. So if you take the imaginative element of the vishuddhi and you combine it with the spiritual element of this ashra, you have a recipe for great fun, because you can access that childlike nature and you can play pretend. But for the Ajna yogin, it's not just pretend, because you're not just applying imagination. You're also manifesting things in your environment by developing narratives and expressing the spirit outward. So, for example, if you're in the garden, if you're working in the garden, maybe you're not just working in the garden. Maybe what you're doing is you're cultivating the kingdom of the fairies that visit your garden at night. And this breathes new life into the experience of being a gardener. Or maybe when you're out at sea, you're not just a fisherman, you're a pirate. You have some narrative that you're forming. These are extreme examples, but we all form narratives. And these narratives, they can be very helpful or they can be very destructive. And it's important to reassess these narratives from time to time in order to determine whether or not they are still representative of reality and whether or not they are still serving you. For example, maybe you've had a negative interaction with a member of your family, and in the aftermath of that interaction, you developed a narrative. Like, for example, you say, my father is disappointed in my lifestyle choices, right? And you carry that narrative with you. Now, most people, they collect hundreds, if not thousands of these narratives that go unexamined. And many of them are contradictory narratives that creates internal inconsistency but it's important from time to time to reassess these narratives. So, for example, let's say there's an individual who used to steal his father's car and get drunk every night and go on joyrides, and now he believes that his father sees him as a disappointment. But that was 15 years ago. And now he's a successful businessman and he only goes on drunken joyrides in his own car. So maybe he needs to reassess the narrative that he developed in relation to his father and see now that, oh, well, my father doesn't view me as such a disappointment anymore. Maybe I can drop that narrative and not put so much energy towards the negative relationship that I have with my father. This is just one example. But there are so many narratives that are present in our lives, and those narratives are all rooted in the ajna, because this is the place of spirit and mind. And so when you know the spirit of something like this is the spirit of my father in relation to me, and you can reflect upon it with the mind, that's what forms a narrative. And those narratives need to be challenged from time to time. And if you find a narrative that is false, throw it away. That's what antarmona is for. In antarmana, we learn how to identify thoughts and then throw them away. So when you find a narrative that is no longer serving you, throw it away and replace it with something new. When you're replacing it with something new, don't just replace it with anything. Make sure that it is connected to reality. Otherwise you're not doing yourself any favors by connecting yourself to some grandiose idea that has no grounding. You need grounding, but you also need hope. You need optimism. So you also need to craft narratives that serve you, that serve to advance your power. And if you can do that, and if you can apply the rules of subtle space, like don't go through any doors when you're spirit walking until you know that you're ready to do that. Don't talk to any entities. Basically, don't talk to strangers. All of the basic rules that you learn as a child, when you're learning how to crawl, how to walk, how to interact with the world, look both ways before you cross the street. These all apply to operating within the spiritual world. And if you can apply all of those standards, all of those rules, if you can find the necessary vessel to operate within, and if you can assess your narratives and take control over that lust within you, then you'll find that the third eye can in fact be a place of great wonder, joy and pleasure.