# rtt lecture - Occult Secrets of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory

Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. We're talking about the film tonight, the original film. Not that new bullshit, but the original film, which is, in my opinion, an absolute masterpiece. And I watched this movie so many times when I was a kid. I've watched it quite a few times as an adult as well. And I must say, out of all the films I've seen, and I've seen a lot Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, believe it or not, is one of the most esoterically powerful films ever made. It's really incredible, the depth of esoteric teaching within this film. Now, with that said, I cannot say with certainty whether or not anyone who was involved with the making of this film was well versed in the esoteric. But that doesn't really matter, because something about the arts that needs to be understood is that artists have a tendency, if they're good artists, to channel perennial truth. And what I mean by that is, is that these artists are tapping into certain streams of consciousness which we could think of as little melodies in the cosmos. They are tapping into those little melodies and they are playing them with their own emphasis on specific notes. They're playing these melodies on their own instruments and they are riffing on these melodies. It's jazz. It's cosmic jazz. And so these artists, even if they don't practice yoga, even if they don't practice some other form of magic or esoteric thought, teaching physical activity, even if they're not engaged in these things, they can still tap into those streams. And so you can find very powerful works of occult magic of the esoteric from people who have never cracked open a magic book, never practiced one day of yoga. And so whether or not this film was crafted by master magicians doesn't really matter. The fact of the matter is that this. This film does provide us with very poignant lessons regarding the nature of some of the most fundamental questions in the esoteric. Now, I chose to give a lecture on the film Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory and not the book Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. And there's a reason for that. I believe that the film actually offers an even stronger representation of the esoteric underpinnings of the story than the book that it is based upon. And so that's why, primarily, I chose to give a lecture on the film. Also, there's something to be said for the accessibility of the film as well as the visual component of the film. Most people can gain access to this film quite easily. The book, you know, it takes a long time to read the book. And you can get just as much, I believe, from the film or even more than from reading the book. So I really think, at least for my purposes, the film I consider superior to the book. So that's why we're focusing on the film. Now, let's get right into it. For those of you who haven't seen the film Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is about a boy named Charlie. And Charlie grows up very poor. He is being raised by his mother. His father is not around. He lives in this old, dilapidated house with his grandparents who are all bedridden. And so Charlie has a very difficult upbringing. But he finds the golden ticket and he is able to go to Willy Wonka's factory, his famous candy factory, which has never been open to the public before. And he gets to see the inner workings of the factory, which changes his life. So that's the general synopsis of the film. Now, there is a lot of depth to this film in terms of magical symbolism but also in terms of the esoteric journey that Charlie begins from his meager upbringing to his final triumph at the end of the film. And we're going to discuss all of the occult secrets. Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. So at the beginning of the film, we have this musical number. The film's. The film has a lot of musical scenes which I don't usually like musicals, but holy shit, these are some good fucking songs. And I really love the first song. And in this song, we have the owner of a candy shop and he is distributing candy to all of these children. He's just throwing out this candy for free. And he's singing all about the candyman and all the magical things that he can do. So what we have here is a representation of a common figure in mythology. The candy shop owner is a wise man and he's a granter of boons. So as the wise man, he communicates messages from the gods to the people. The children are representing the common people. And in the Indian tradition, we have this concept of the breaking of the jar. Now, in the breaking of the jar, the leader of society, whether that's a priest or a politician or a soldier, has the duty to break the jar. And what this means is that he is taking all of the power and all of the love and prana that has been given to him and he is redistributing it in order to ensure a healthy foundation for the culture. In this scene, the candy shop owner, who acts as an intermediate force, he is the intermediary to the gods. He is literally breaking the jar. He's opening up all of the jars in the candy shop and he is distributing prana. He's throwing prana out to the people, he's giving energy out to the children. And when he does this, he's creating a more beautiful world, a more beautiful environment. Now, you know, this might look like bad business on the surface, and maybe it is, if you take a purely market or Vaishya oriented perspective on what's happening here. But the type of environment in the candy shop that is cultivated by the breaking of the jar is one of happiness and a total embrace of the potential of magic, which is what is being sung about by the candy shop owner. He's talking about Willy Wonka, who is the candyman who can make everyone's dreams come true. And so right here in the beginning, we have an affirmation of the power of magic, of manifestation, of potentiality. And we have an example of effective leadership within a community from an esoteric standpoint. The breaking of the jar, the distribution of power. Beautiful scene. So the core problem here in the beginning of the film is that Willy Wonka, who is world famous, and he's so famous that he takes on this godlike Persona. He's like a demigod or a God made manifest. An incarnation very similar to, for example, Krishna. Krishna, who walks amongst the people, but is an incarnation of Vishnu. He is an incarnation of God and he is known throughout the globe. Krishna and Willy Wonka. And it's kind of strange, you know, when you're watching this film, it's like, why is everyone so concerned with this candy factory? Why is Willy Wonka regarded as this incredible, magnificent force in the world? That's because Willy Wonka in this film is an incarnation of the divine. That is what he represents. And so all of the hopes and dreams of the people all over the world and all the happiness and prosperity of the people is wrapped up in this cult of Willy Wonka. Now, interestingly enough, Wonka has been absent for quite some time. He's been stowed away in his factory and he hasn't made any sort of public appearance. And this has actually caused some anxiety in the world because, like I said, so much of the imagination and the dreams and the will to power that exists within this world in this film is wrapped up in what Willy Wonka is doing. So when it is announced that Wonka will open the gates to his factory and a few lucky people will be able to step through those gates, experience this magical world. When this is announced, it creates this mass panic, people are running to the stores and they're buying as many of these chocolate bars as they can. Because hidden in these chocolate bars are the golden tickets. Now there are only five golden tickets that are being released. And if you find one of these five tickets, you will be invited to visit the factory. So what is the significance of the golden ticket, esoterically speaking? Well, this is revealed as a point of contrast because you'll notice that the Wonka bars that carry the golden ticket, usually when you open the Wonka bar, the chocolate is wrapped in silver, silver wrapping. Now in alchemy, traditional alchemy, silver possesses an alchemy anti magical quality. This is why, for example, you would use a silver bullet to kill a werewolf or you would use silver to fight a vampire. It's because these beings that are of a supernatural origin are defeated by the anti magical properties of silver. So silver is considered to be a mundane element in traditional alchemy. Now gold, on the other hand, gold is the prime material for magic. So if you want to craft a magical item, traditionally you would use gold, not silver. Silver is repelling. It is connected to that which is mundane. And gold is beyond. So here we have these candy bars that are wrapped in silver. And if you get a silver bar, you're trapped in the mundane world. There's nothing of any magical significance that's going to come from the silver bars. But if you can get the golden ticket, then your potential is unlocked because you have access to the magical material, the prime material, which takes you out of the mundane world and throws you into a world of magical expression. That is what the golden ticket represents. And everyone wants it because the people have been trapped in the mundane for too long. And Willy Wonka, he has failed to break the jar. He's kept himself locked away in his factory. So now here we have the potential for Wonka to bring color back to the world. And the five lucky children who find these golden tickets will be part of this magical process. So one by one the tickets are found and they are located by children in different parts of the world. Some of the children, they come from very wealthy backgrounds. And so their parents spend lots of money and resources to gain access to the golden ticket. Others, they just find it by chance. And in fact, even the child who gets her golden ticket because her father spent a lot of money buying box after box of chocolate bars, there's still an aspect of chance involved. And what I mean by chance is that there is no direct intervention from a force that has the potential to Alter the progression of the journey. Any of these children, except for one. So all of the tickets are found. And there's this big controversy because in South America, one of the tickets that was found is shown to be a fake. But Charlie doesn't know this yet. Charlie, like I said, he's very poor and he wants badly to go to the chocolate factory. But he doesn't really believe so much in his ability to go to the factory. Because when he tries, he fails. And this has kind of been the story of his life. And it's his ancestral karma. We see generational poverty with Charlie. But one day, after Charlie had seen that the last ticket, which was later proven to be fake, was located, one day Charlie decides to go to that candy shop that is shown at the beginning of the film. And of course, he's not in there searching for the golden ticket because he is under the assumption that it's already been found. So he goes in, he has a little bit of money to spend. He buys a chocolate bar and he eats it right away because he's hungry. And he doesn't usually get to eat something like a chocolate bar. He doesn't get to indulge in something like that. It's very special. And then he's going to leave the candy shop. But then he decides to buy one more bar. But he doesn't buy it for himself. He buys the chocolate bar for his Grandpa Joe. Very important moment. Because when Charlie decided this act of love, an expression of the heart, this act which some people might consider to be selfless, he caught the attention of the wise man, the candy shop owner who, as I said, communicates with the gods. He is the intermediary between Willy Wonka and the outside world. And when Charlie asks to buy a chocolate bar for his Grandpa Joe, this expression of heart inspires the candy shop owner. Now, it's not shown explicitly that the candy shop owner had access to this golden ticket all along. But I do believe that that is what is represented in this scene where the candy shop owner gives Charlie a Wonka bar. Charlie walks outside, he opens it, and inside is a golden ticket. Incredible moment. I believe that the candy shop owner had that bar held back. He was given that bar by Willy Wonka, who, by the way, has agents, secret agents operating outside of the candy factory. One named Slugworth. And we'll get to him later. But the candy shop owner has access to this candy bar and he gives it to Charlie. Now, what does this represent in mythology? In every grand tradition, especially within the Aryan tradition and the Indian Tradition, Most importantly, you have this concept of the boon, the granting of the boon. Now, what does this mean, to be granted a boon? Well, it means that the gods have looked fondly upon you and they have given you some power. Now, in order to receive a boon, you must accumulate great karma. And how do you accumulate this karma? Well, it's through action taking certain actions that are transformative in your own consciousness, connect you with the gods. When Charlie purchased that candy bar out of the love that he had for his family, he expressed great heart, which is the seat of will. And so in accessing this will, he was able to communicate with a stream of consciousness that he was not even aware of. He did not even know this existed. But he was granted a boon. Divine intervention is represented in this moment of the film. He is given this chocolate bar and inside the prime magic material, gold, in the hands of this poor boy who had no chance to actually get this golden ticket unless he expressed his will to power and communicated with the gods, which he did successfully. So Charlie is given this great boon and he uses it. He invites his Grandpa Joe as his guest to go to the chocolate factory. So here we have the introduction of Willy Wonka. Now, this is a great media affair. There's reporters from all over the world who are watching these children and their. Their guests, their. Their family members walk through the gates and enter into the chocolate factory. And it's interesting because the chocolate factory prior to this time is represented as this very grim, gray, smoggy thing surrounded by mist. It's mystified. There's mystification surrounding the magic, the core magic in the world. And Willy Wonka is a representation not only of the incarnation of the divine, but also of the king at the center of the world, which is a common motif in grand magical traditions all over the world. We have the king at the center of the world, and the candy factory is his kingdom. So the king, the Chakravartin, he is going to walk out of his kingdom and he's going to restore magic to the land. The mistake that surrounded the factory will be lifted and color will be reintroduced to the world. But only a select few will be able to experience the significance of this directly. And those are the individuals who hold in their hands that prime material of gold. So the doors open. Willy Wonka, he steps out and he's not what everyone expected. He's walking with a cane, he's limping. Everyone's confused. This is supposed to be this powerful man. And then he does a front flip and he pops up and we see that he's full of life, vitality, vigor. What does this represent? Well, it represents the rejuvenation of the kingdom. A good example of this in mythology is the Arthurian rejuvenation when King Arthur is brought the Holy Grail and he drinks from it. He transforms. Excuse me, he transforms from this withered old man into this expression of vitality. And he rides out and there's this grand rejuvenation of the land. The same happens with Wonka. He is rejuvenated by the presence of the public and all of these children who to him, represent hope. Hope for the future. So here we have Willy Wonka inviting everyone into the factory. All of these children and their family members who they've invited as their guests. They step into the factory. And as soon as they get into the factory, what do they find? They find a massive contract. Okay, so you have to understand, this film is about magical initiation. Specifically, it's about initiation on the right hand path, the ascending path, which is a form of initiation that we find in most grand traditions. Now, with this contract, this is where the aspect of rooted consciousness comes into play because Willy Wonka is rooted in the vishudi. So he operates from the mind. Specifically, he represents the imaginative power of the mind and the manifestation capabilities and the matrix formation associated with the mind. So Willy Wonka is a guru in this film. He is going to guide all of these children through their initiation. And in order for him to act as an effective guru, he has to establish certain standards of conduct. The contract that is presented is something that would be presented in most magical traditions that have a heavy Vishuddhi element. For example, in Judaism, you have the covenant with God. In Zen Buddhism, and in Vajrayana Buddhism, you have certain ethical standards which are written standards that need to be upheld. And there is this contemplative element of the vishuddhi that is very legalistic. That contract represents the conceptual framework for the magical practice. So we have in this contract the framework of conduct. And an interesting aspect of this contract is in the beginning, it's easy to read. The letters are very big. Everything's clear. But as you get further down, the text gets smaller and smaller until the text is so small that it just evaporates. Well, why is that? Of course, there's the absurdist element of the film because there's a lot of absurd qualities. That's an artistic choice of the filmmakers. It's beautiful because it really fits the energy, the energetic expression of the vishudi which we find in this film. But. But also there's the aspect of the guru. Now, when you are beginning a magical initiation, there are certain aspects of the initiation which cannot be described in words. And so there is a requirement of trust in the guru. If you do not trust the guru sufficiently, you are not going to succeed on your path. And while there can be all of this evidence and all these standards and all of these terms and conditions for practicing, ultimately you have to trust the guru. So the children have just got to accept that there are certain aspects of this journey that they won't understand until they are deeper into the initiation. And that is why the text dissipates. So the children agree, and they step into a new world of magic. And there is a moment in the film where a door is open and the children step into the candy making room. Now, this room is incredible. It is full of color vibrancy. Up until this point in the film, the closest thing to this expression of color was in the candy shop. But the candy shop pales in comparison to what we see in this room. And everything in the room is edible. It's really incredible. And Willy Wonka sings a song called Pure Imagination. Now, this song is very important because it represents the magical potential of the mind. As I said, Willy Wonka is rooted in the Vishudi. So he operates primarily from the mind, and his candy factory is his matrix. Something that is commonly seen in Vishudi people is that they will create an environment that is of their deepest interests and they will sort of like play a role within this environment. I know a man who is rooted in the Vishudi who bought an old farmhouse. And this man was not really a farmer, but he liked the idea of being a farmer. So he bought this old farmhouse. And on this farmhouse he has this silo. But does he use the silo for its intended purpose? No, he doesn't. But he had to have the silo because it's the idea of the silo that matters. It's the idea of the silo that lets him, as he says, play farmer. So there's a role playing aspect to this. And Willy Wonka is not just a candy manufacturer. He is the candyman. In his essence, it's woven into everything he does. He wears this crazy, vibrant suit with this wild top hat because he is the candyman. He's more than just the material representation. He's more than just the title that he's taken in society. He is the conceptual understanding of what it means to access the spirit of the candyman. And how did he access the spirit? He did it through imagination. And he created a whole world of imagination. And this imagination is the root. It's the beginning of manifestation. Look at all the incredible, beautiful things he's able to create because he imagined that it would be possible to begin with. So that's a very important lesson for everyone to learn. Now, in this room, we have our first elimination. Because the child, Augustus Gloop, who is rooted in the muladhara, a German rooted in the muladhara, which, by the way, this school pioneered rooted consciousness. But it's really incredible how to the point all these characters are in terms of their rooted consciousness. Augustus Gloop, the German boy rooted in the muladhara, he is overcome with the vice that is associated with the muladhara, that being greed. And. And he doesn't listen to the terms that he said he would abide by. And he starts to dip his hands into the chocolate river and drink from the river. Now, Willy Wonka tells him, please stop drinking from the chocolate river because it's a clean river and it cannot be touched by human hands. But he is overcome by this vice of greed. So he keeps drinking from the river, and he falls in and he's sucked up into this straw and he disappears. It's insinuated that he's going to die as a result of this bad behavior. Pretty fucking harsh. But that is the danger of practicing magic if you are in the path of initiation. There's real danger associated with that. And that is shown in this scene. Augustus doesn't even begin the actual process, the kundalini process, which is represented in the film. He is eliminated from the very beginning because he is overtaken by his greed. Now, this, of course, is not a comment on the muladhara and the potential of muladhara people to succeed in a magical operation. This just so happens to be that he's the first one to be eliminated. So after his elimination, we have another song that is sung by the Oompa Loompas. Now, the Oompa Loompas are representative of the little people, the helping forces which are found all throughout European North Asian magical tradition. The Oompa Loompas are like the dwarves, the elves, the land whites, many different figures, leprechauns, all of these little spiritual helping forces. Fairies that provide guidance. And the guidance that they provide is in the form of a moralistic tone poem. So basically, they repeat the mistake that was made in their song. They repeat the mistake that was made by the child, and then they warn everyone don't make this mistake. You need to be careful. You need to abide by these rules, these ascetic practices that will help you achieve your ultimate goal. And if you can do that, you will live a happy life. And then they leave. We should listen to the Oompa Loompas. They have a lot of really good lessons to teach. So everyone files into a boat and we have one of the most fucked up scenes in any film ever made. And it seems totally out of character to the rest of the film, but everyone files into this boat and they go into a dark tunnel. And in this tunnel, Wonka starts repeating this really disturbing poem about death. And he is beckoning everyone in the boat towards this death. And it's speeding up, going faster and faster. And as it's speeding up, we have all of these bright lights appearing and all of these strange images of insects and a chicken getting its head cut off and all of this really weird stuff. And what this represents is an explosion of the Kundalini force, an awakening of Shakti, and a sudden awareness of where this momentum is headed. And that is towards death. Ego death, the end result of the first initiation. So all of this momentum is being built up in this scene. And it's going to propel us now through the rest of the film. So let's talk about the Everlasting Gobstopper. The Everlasting Gobstopper is one of the most important magical items in this film. And in fact, I mentioned the character Slugworth earlier. And Slugworth is. He is an agent of Willy Wonka. But of course, we don't know this. In the beginning of the film, he appears at each moment that one of these children gains access to a golden ticket. And he whispers something in their ear. We don't know what he whispered until the end of the film. But it all surrounds this Everlasting Gobstopper. Now, the Everlasting Gobstopper is the newest invention from Wonka. And it is this really strange looking candy. The thing about the Everlasting Gobstopper is that it never loses flavor. Now that's strange. Why would a candy maker create candy that might put him out of business? Because as soon as you buy it, it never runs out of flavor. And he makes it for children who can't afford to buy a lot of candy. So if they're gonna buy one piece of candy, they can get this piece of candy that never runs out of flavor. Why would he do this? Well, it's because Willy Wonka is not the normal Candy maker. He is an incarnation of the divine. So what he is really offering is the gift of everlasting life. He is offering godhood. He is offering an expression of the individuated form and ego, which is the heart, the never ending heart, the heart that always beats. The everlasting Gobstopper. That's what it is. The everlasting gobstopper is the anahata. It is the will. It is the ego expressed for eternity. It never loses its flavor, it never loses its joy. And so if you can access that source of never ending joy and abandon all material concern, which is what Wonka is doing when he creates this candy. He's not making this candy for the benefit of his business. As I said, it could put him out of business. And he's aware of this. He's doing it because he's offering a bridge to eternity, a means of escaping the Yugic cycle, the cycle of life and death. It's a beautiful expression in this film. But in order to keep this everlasting gobstopper, in order to access it and keep it, you have to go about it in the right way. Now let's talk about the ways in which these other children are eliminated because they are systematically eliminated. We have Violet. Violet is a girl who is rooted in the Ajna, of course. Her name is Violet. It's very interesting. She wears purple and she becomes lustful over a piece of gum that is able to manifest all of the different flavors of a full meal. So you have your appetizer and the main course, dessert, all of that, all in one stick of gum. She succumbs to the vice that is associated with the Ajna, that being lust. And she chews the gum, even though it's experimental and it's not ready. She takes it and she has a bad reaction. She becomes a blueberry Violet. You're turning violet, is what her father says. Now, this is very interesting because in the Ajna, there is this threat that if you lust over something too much the spirit of something, you will manifest that thing. You will become that thing. And that is one of the ways that you can get caught up in your consciousness, is through lust for a specific thing that draws you away from your core expression, transforms you, becomes a new narrative in your life and alters your way of being, alters your Dharma to such an extent that you lose track of what your dharma is and you fall off your path and you become something that is adharmic. And that's what happens with Violet. And then you Have Veruca. Veruka, Salt. Veruca is rooted in the Svadosthana. And what is her vice? It's envy. Veruka is envious of Willy Wonka because Wonka has the golden geese. They lay the golden egg and she wants one of these geese. But Wonka says they're not for sale, they mean more to him than money. But she succumbs to this envy and the typical vice of the Vaishya, which is to be obsessed with the material to such a point that the material becomes compulsive. And her karma, her bad karma that she has accumulated is judged when she sits on the scale that weighs the egg and determines whether it's a good egg or a bad egg. She is determined to be a bad egg because she's accumulated so much bad karma. And so she falls into a pit and she's eliminated. Once again, the Oompa Loompas come out and they sing a story or sing a song that tells a story about how you should beware of envy. And then we have Mike. Mike. TV Mike is rooted in the Manipura. And he's very gluttonous. So he seeks experience. And when he's told not to mess with all of this technology, he does it anyway. And he shrinks. He shrinks down to a tiny little, almost like an ant. And he's overcome by his gluttony, his need to experience things without mind, which is the great trap of the Manipura. And so he's eliminated. And there's one child, one child that's left. Charlie. He's rooted in the anahata. And Charlie, his great vice is wrath. Now, Charlie does make a mistake in the factory. He drinks the fizzy lifting drink. And the fizzy lifting drink, which he drinks along with his Grandpa Joe, causes him to float up and almost get killed by a fan, a giant fan that's spinning above him. But he's saved by his gut. So he has all this air, and air elementally, if we're thinking about consciousness represents the mind. It represents the vishudi. And he overfills his mind. He overfills his body with the intellect. It causes him to rise up too fast, but he applies a counterbalance. He accesses his gut, the Manipura, and he starts to burp. He and his Grandpa Joe start to burp, and they are saved by their gut. They're saved by the emotional center which allows them to fall back down to earth. They came close to getting the Icarus treatment, but they were able to save themselves with their gut and continue on their journey. However, they did break their agreement to the asceticism. So when they reach the end of the tour of the factory, Wonka goes into his office and he says goodbye. But anyone who reaches the end of the line is supposed to receive a lifetime supply of chocolate. So Grandpa Joe goes into Wonka's office, which, by the way, everything in the office is cut in half, chopped in half, which represents many different things. It represents the overcoming of duality. It represents the subtle body versus the material body. The subtle body is invisible. And here we have the material body. This is the inner sanctum of a great magician, and Wong Ki is a great magician. It also represents Gemini, the waking body, and the dream body, which is associated very strongly with the Vishuddhi. And the specific manifestation of the Vishuddhi chakra that is seen in Wonka is the Gemini expression of Vishuddhi, which is the imaginative aspect of the Vishudi. So here we are in his inner sanctum, and Grandpa Joe says, what about the lifetime supply of chocolate? Why doesn't Charlie get it? And Wonka says, because you broke the rules. You weren't supposed to drink the fizzy lifting drink. Now the Oompa Loompas are gonna have to scrub the walls, wash the whole thing down. You lose. Good day, sir. And then at this moment, Grandpa Joe becomes very angry. He's overtaken by wrath. And he's screaming. He's screaming at Wonka. But Charlie, he takes a different approach. He could get angry, he could scream like his Grandpa Joe. But he sees Grandpa Joe yelling and he decides, this isn't the way. And he takes the Everlasting Gobstopper and he places it on the desk of Wonka. And when he does this, he has committed the second selfless act, which is that he overcame his vice. He did not give himself over to wrath, which is the vice of the heart. And he did not follow through with the enticement that was given to him by Slugworth, who is like a wrathful deity who offered Charlie money. Money that would have brought his family out of poverty if he would take that everlasting Gobstopper and bring it back and give it to Slugworth so that it could be used by Wonka's competitor. He didn't do it. He didn't think it was right. He chose beauty instead of momentary material gain. And when he did that, when he denied the unrefined material, the unrefined shakti, he won. He won. He made it to the top of the mountain he ascended. And in his ascension. And keep in mind, he was not aware of the fact that he would be rewarded for this action. He just pursued pure beauty. And in doing this, he wins everything. Wonka takes him to the Wonka Vedr, which is representative of the final climb of the Serpent, the Kundalini power rising up to the glass ceiling of the factory, which is the crown, the Sahasra breaking through. And when they break through the glass, the glass shatters into a thousand pieces like the thousand petals of the Sahasra lotus. And they observe everything from this elevated position, this beautiful elevated position of ascension, where Charlie experiences an ego death. And then we have this beautiful moment where the whole thing doesn't just end with them in the sky. Because Charlie is given the factory, he is given the world of magic. This beautiful world that was denied by the circumstances of his birth. But he struggled and he lived a good life and he accumulated good karma. And through this action, he was able to gain the world of magic and the everlasting gobstopper joy forever. And this is stated the affirmation, the final affirmation of the will to power in life, which is given at the end of the film when Willy Wonka says, but Charlie, don't forget what happened to the man who suddenly got everything you always wanted. And Charlie says, what happened? And Wonka says, he lived happily ever.