# The Right-Hand Path Part 6 - Vishuddhi

So tonight we're going to talk about the Vishudi. And the Vishudi is the chakra of the mind, which is situated, interestingly enough, in the throat. Now, what's funny about that is most people, when they associate the mind with a part of the body, they think of the brain. But your brain is not your mind. Your mind is something that is separate, but not totally separate from the physical body. The brain itself is part of the physical body, the blood body, which is represented by the Muladhara. The mind is represented by the Vishudi, and it is not technically part of the physical body. Even though all of the elements of the self are interconnected in some way and always will be connected, if you separate one of these elements from the rest, the self dissipates. The mind cannot exist in a vacuum, just as the body cannot continue to go on living without the mind. You need all of these elements combined to make a person or a living thing. And so we must also recognize that the alchemical combination of these elements that create life, they differ in the balance. So there are things that are in this world, living things that are much more body oriented as compared to mind oriented. And we can know the alchemical composition of these things by inhabiting the chakras, spending time working in the chakras so that we can pick up on the energetic nature of these things. And then when we encounter these elements within the world, wherever you may find them, we can know, okay, the wind, the air around us, this is something that is sattvic. It is of the mind, it is of the Vishudi. It's also the ajna. You have the ground beneath our feet, solid rock, dirt. This is the earth. It's the muladhara. So we can pick up on the energetic nature of elements around us. And then we can start to see, okay, this has so many parts. Wind versus earth versus fire or water or whatever other element you want to consider. And within the present age of modernity, which is the age of the Vishudi, there is a strong emphasis on the mind. And because of that, the alchemical aspect of air is prevalent, very prevalent. And there is a tendency for most people to focus on those things that are airy, that surround them, as well as exist within the self. So what we have now is a very intense focus on the mind. And this intense focus on the mind creates maladjustment. In modernity, which is the age of the Vishudi, much of the thinking, much of the introspecting that occurs occurs outside of the self. So what I mean by that is society is always telling people what to think, and they're always telling people what exists within their mind, what mental matrices exist inside of each individual. So when you watch tv, when you watch the news, when you watch any kind of media, or consume any kind of media in any way, much of the media that is produced now is designed specifically to do all of your thinking for you. And this has become more prevalent as we've advanced deeper into modernity. So in the past, artistic creations were very challenging. Mythology challenged the people. Great productions of Greek tragedy challenged the people. Great novels, classic novels were very challenging. The media that individuals interacted with, presented them with something to chew on. And so there was an encouraging aspect to this. It was like, okay, I'm opening this door, I'm inviting you to experience the mind, but you have to bring something to the experience. Now, it's not so much as we get deeper into modernity, people are spoon fed ideas. Film, television, novels, the stage, all of this is designed to be as immediately perceptible as possible. So when individuals interact with this media, all they really have to do is show up, then absorb whatever is being given to them. And because of this, the mind is handicapped. In this present stage of modernity, it's as if everyone is born and then immediately placed into a wheelchair. Now just imagine what that would do to the physical body if you were to be born and immediately placed into a wheelchair. There would be no reason for your body to develop muscles, to develop a healthy skeletal structure. There would be no reason for your body to advance. And so your body would atrophy, it would wither away and you would be weakened, physically weakened, by the experience of immediately being placed in a wheelchair upon birth. And of course, because the body is the aspect of the self that is most readily perceived in the present age, as soon as you experience this atrophy, you would know it and it would be obvious to everyone. It would be insane, right? Everyone would know immediately if we started putting babies in wheelchairs as soon as they were born, and not giving them the chance to crawl, to learn to walk, to learn to run, to learn to jump and climb and advance. If we denied humanity this aspect of the self, everyone would think, oh, this is insane, we shouldn't do this, right? But this is exactly what we do to the mind in modernity. As soon as you are born, you are told exactly what to think. You are read books that tell you what to think. You are placed in an institutional learning facility where you are taught exactly what to think and how to think it. You go to college, same thing. Or maybe you don't go to college, but if you don't go to college, it doesn't matter because everyone around you is going to tell you exactly what you need to think and the wider culture is going to try to shove ideas down your throat. Very rarely will you be presented with an idea by a confident thinker who is willing to just honestly present you with the idea and say, take it or leave it. Because very few people have confidence in the quality of the ideas that they are expressing in the current age. And so what happens is these individuals who present you with an idea have to brainwash you. Instead of being able to present a poignant idea in a few words or in a short presentation, they have to write a 900 page book on a simple subject that could be summed up, like I said, concisely. But if you are to sum up your ideas concisely or present your ideas concisely and clearly, you're asking people to engage with, with the raw presentation of your ideas. And you're not watering those ideas down, you're not sugarcoating your ideas, you're just presenting them. And then people have to chew on those ideas. And those ideas, those raw ideas that are really meaningful, are challenging and they're difficult for people to engage with. And because of that, those ideas struggle in the marketplace of ideas. Because the Shudra wants something that is easy to digest, or the Shudra want to be brainwashed, they desire programming. And you can see this in academia because so many of these learned scholars within academia, they live for the 2000 page magnum opus from the latest obscure Marxist. They live for that shit because it allows them to undergo the process of willful programming. And because they were placed in an intellectual wheelchair when they were born, it feels good to them to have everything injected, manipulated, twisted into their mind. Because to interact with a difficult idea would require standing up from that intellectual wheelchair. And most people aren't willing to feel their legs shake, feel their bones quake and feel the ground fall out from underneath them. And so radical ideas are becoming more and more difficult to find in the culture because people are not interested in exploring these radical ideas. And the people who would present these radical ideas lack the guts to actually go through with it. And so these ideas go unspoken. And this brings us to the right hand path, Kundalini and the Visuddhi. Because it is within the right hand path that Yogins step out of the wheelchair. They stand up from the intellectual wheelchair and they take command over their mind and they hone their mind and they establish autonomy within the mind and they say, no longer will I will I allow you to spoon feed me information. I am going to willfully engage with ideas that are scary, that are challenging. I'm going to place my mind in conditions where I can test the strength of it and I can grow, I can flex my head. That's what we do on the right hand path with the Vishudi. Now this is a revolutionary idea within the current age. Because the system does not want you to think. The system does not want you to flex your head. It wants you to remain in your intellectual wheelchair. Because the second that you take control over your mind, that's the moment when you start to entertain those ideas that become a threat to to the system. That's when a personal revolution comes to a new level of self realization, that is the contemplative realization. So far in this series of lectures, I've talked about the active chakras, which include the Muladhara, the Svadhisthana and the Manipura. And I've talked about the anahata, which is neither inherently active or contemplative. But when you reach the Vishuddhi, you break through into a new realm of personal development. So far in the right hand path, you focus on the active elements, those elements that are easiest to perceive, the body, the inner fire. But after you complete the process, overcoming the attachments in the anahata and you advance to the Vishudi, this is when you reach the foundation of contemplation. And that's what the Vishudi is. The mind is the foundation of contemplation. And therefore it is actually quite similar to the muladhara. Because the muladhara is the foundation of activity. It is your rooted point activity. So if you are to ground yourself in a physical sense, what you're doing is you're entering the space of the muladhara, you're dragging yourself down to the earth so that you can establish connection with the solid ground. And it's important to do that from time to time. But it's also important to reach grounding in the mind. And that's what the Vishudi provides. The Vishudi provides grounding in the mind. If you do not have a healthy development of the Vishudi, your contemplative aspect will be scattered in a thousand directions and you will fall victim to ideas that lack substance. And when I mean substance in this sense, I mean contemplative substance, I mean ideas that lack reason, that lack rationality. Because it is within the mind that we find reason, we find rationality, we find imagination. And so if you do not develop the mind, what happens? Well, you become victim to bad ideas. Like I said before, you can be spoon fed any sort of idea by anyone if your mind is weak. And that's what happens to most people. They're spoon fed. Their political ideas, their social ideas, their ideas about sex, drugs, rock and roll and every other fucking thing on the face of the earth is just fed to them and they accept it because they have a weak mind. It's atrophied. They weren't challenged enough. And if you possess a weak mind and someone presents some insanity to you, something that has no connection to reality whatsoever, are you going to be able to recognize the fact that this idea is not grounded in reality? No, you're not going to be able to recognize that idea because you don't possess a grounded point. You don't have enough strength in the mind to pull yourself down to a place where you can apply reason in a healthy fashion. And so it's important to exercise the mind. And the way that we do this within Viagra Yoga within this school is, is through meditative exercise. So we utilize a few fundamental meditative exercises on the right hand path. And to give you an example of some of these exercises and how they are integrated in order to exercise the mind and rest control of this grounding point in contemplation, we need to assess Trataka and Tarmana. Specifically. These two practices form the basis of the work that we do in the mind. So with Frataka for example, this is the first meditative exercise that Yogins practice within this school. And the reason why we utilize trataka is because it is a way of exercising all of the sattvic elements of the self. The Vishudi is the first of the sattvic elements within the self. If you're advancing up the spine from the muladhara. The second is the Ajna. Trataka activates both sattvic elements. It activates the mind because you are interacting with the flow of ideas, the thought process. And it activates the Ajna because you are interacting with aspects of subtle space. When you're practicing trataka. With Trataka, you apply the prana mudra at the eyebrow center. So this is to aid in the activation of the ajna or the third eye. And then you are utilizing a very specific technique in order to bring your focus to a point. Now with trataka, you're focusing on a candle flame typically, but you can practice Frataka on anything. But usually it's a candle flame. You're focusing on the candle flame and you're allowing all thoughts and experiences, sensations to flow freely with no interaction. And this is the Kriya approach. If you were to focus on that candle flame and throw out all thoughts, throw out all sensations, throw out everything, you would be applying one point in this. Now, one point in this is effective, it's useful, it's something that we want to develop. But within modernity, one pointedness is the primary way that individuals interact with their surrounding environment. So if you're at work, you're focusing on a single project, you're focusing very intensely on that project, and you have to eliminate distractions or your work will suffer. Now compare this to the conditions of hunter gatherers. If a hunter is going into the woods and they're pursuing prey, yes, they're focusing on this singular task of pursuing prey. But at the same time they're, they have to be aware of their surroundings, their surroundings are changing, there's varied nature to the wilderness. And so you have to be aware of the predators that surround you that can become a threat to your body, to your well being. You've got to be aware of the terrain. And all the while you are still bringing your attention back to that one focus point which is the prey that you are hunting. So hunters in primitive societies, they practice trataka naturally, all day long when they are on the hunt. And so this is why they are able to enter into this passive meditative state. This is why they are able to feel this comfort that so many people are lacking in modernity, because they are surrounded by a meditative exercise. Their life is, it integrates this meditative exercise of trataka. But for those of us who do not live in a hunter gatherer society, we need to apply practices that give us the experience of that Kriya meditation, that passive observation. And that's what trataka is for. So the candle flame is your prey, and everything around you that you allow into your awareness is the wilderness. And when you passively observe the thought process, when you passively observe the wilderness, what you're doing is you are reducing your reactivity and you are flexing your head. It's an exercise for your mind. It's an exercise that gives you control over how your mind responds to things. But not just your mind, also your body, also your emotions, also your spirit. Every aspect of the self is integrated into this practice. And over time, if you practice trataka consistently, you will find that you will become less reactive to the things in your environment and you will be able to indulge in specific things. And not only that, but you will be able to see the entire wilderness, the terrain, the predators and the prey that you are searching for. You'll be able to see all of these things at once. And rather than applying intense focus to a singular point and exhausting yourself, expelling prana in pursuit of one point, in this, you will be able to enjoy the energy that you save by being in a passive state of observation, which is the state of meditation that we seek first within Viagra Yoga. So this is a very important aspect of taking control of Vishuddhi. And it begins at the start of your practice. Don't wait until you enter into the mind space to start integrating the mind. We also utilize the Onya Bhava shift Mudra along with trataka. So when you're practicing trataka and you're observing the candle flame, you close your eyes. In this school, with our initial trataka practice, we do not try to recreate the candle flame. We allow whatever experience will come to us to come to us freely when this experience occurs. That is, when you perform the Anya Bhava Mudra, which is the shift mudra, which you can read about more. It's one of the primary materials of the school. But essentially, Anya Bhava Mudra is a physical act that creates a sensation in the body which is repeated on the first instance of a manifestation in trataka. And what we are doing when we perform a shift mudra is we are tying the physical sensation in the body to a shift in consciousness that occurs within the Sattvic space. That shift may occur within the mind, or it may occur within subtle space within the Ajna. Regardless of where it occurs, a shift has happened. And so you are attaching that shift in condition to your body. What this does is it builds a bridge between the blood body and the mind, as well as the spirit. And as a result of this, you are able to feel the shifting conditions of the mind and spirit within the body. This creates a more holistic approach to your yoga practice and is the foundational stage for many more practices that utilize a combination of all these elements. Now, Antar mauna, this is a Sanskrit term that means inner silence. So the goal of Antar Mauna is to achieve the state of inner silence. And I learned Antar Mauna as a six stage process from Swami Satyananda Satyananda My right hand path Guru of the Bihar School, Satyananda Yoga and Satyananda taught the six part process of Antarmana, which I have found to be the most effective way of teaching antarmana. And through this six stage process, you are first exploring the passive observation Kriya approach to meditation that you experience in Trataka. But then slowly, as you advance through each stage, you are beginning to integrate one pointedness once again. Now for most of us, we already have quite a lot of familiarity with one pointedness. If I had a student that came from a hunter gatherer culture who wanted to learn control over the mind, I would take a different approach. I would actually most likely begin with a one pointed approach to meditation because I would know that they're already familiar with the passive observation. But for most of us, because we exist within modernity, taking the Kriya passive observation approach first makes sense. And then you integrate, you reintegrate the one pointedness. Now when you do this, you can start to recognize within the mind all of the chronic channels. And there are many, many chronic channels within the mind and you need to map them out to become master of the mind. Now, it's not our goal in the right hand path to become a total master of the mind. Our goal in the right hand path is in exploring the Vishudi is to lose the attachments that will prevent us from being able to approach transcendence. And so in order to do this, we have to familiarize ourselves with the mind. We have to know the mind, we have to know what it is and we have to know its traps. And there are many traps within the mind and they are magnified by the fact that we exist within modernity. So let's think about some of these traps and how they can really hurt us if we don't take the time to recognize them and address them. All of the maladjustments within the Vishudi ultimately come back to sloth. Sloth is the sin that is associated with the Vishudi. Now sloth has many different manifestations and many of these manifestations are only very subtly connected with sloth. And it's even difficult to describe the connection. But energetically nonetheless there is a connection. So let's think about some of the points of maladjustment that can be readily identified within the Vishuddhi that, as I said, are in some way related to sloth. One aspect is the time attachment. So within the Vishudi you are creating a mind matrix. That's how the mind works. You're Developing a system for understanding the world around you and applying reason in order to assess the validity of contemplative elements. And so the matrix that you develop is informed by the information that you consume. All right? And this matrix is stubborn because it needs to be. Like I said, the vishudi is the grounding point for the mind. So it needs to be solid. It has to be similar to the muladhara. You need a solid body to feel grounded in the active sense, and you need a solid mental matrix to feel grounded in your mind. If you don't have a solid mental matrix, your ideas will shift constantly. That's the thing about the mind, is that there is a flow of ideas and these ideas can just come up at random. That's the nature of wind, of air. And in the midst of this tornado of ideas, you need to have a solid structure that can hold up to the onslaught of the wind. Otherwise, like I said, you'll go insane because your ideas will be shifting from moment to moment. There will be no solidification of concepts. So you have to build your mental matrix. Now, most of us have our mental matrix built for us by society, and that's part of the atrophy. And when you are practicing yoga and you come to the vishudi, the time has come to begin to assess the mental matrix and start to deconstruct it and determine whether or not it is a reflection of reality. And in order to do this, you need to understand what the mind really consists of, because so much of the self has been falsely attributed to the mind. In modernity, emotions are not an aspect of the mind. Emotions, emotional energy comes from the gut. It's an aspect of thumos, of the manipura. But the mind is a consumptive thing. It's like a great white shark. Its mouth is always open, one giant throat, consuming. And so in this consumptive state, the mind is going to take up space. If you give it that space, but you can't give it more space than it deserves, that's when you run into problems. That's when you start thinking that you're nothing but a mind. That's when you start falling into solipsism, which is one of the traps of the vishudi. But you do need to have a solid mental matrix and you need to designate where the boundaries of the mind are. Now, time, how does this relate to time? Time is one of the biggest attachments that we face in modernity. And the thing about time is that time is an abstract tool that we use in order to navigate space. But it is really an illusion ultimately, because we exist within a cycle, and that cycle itself is in fact an illusion that you can escape. Now, when I say it's an illusion, I don't mean that it's fake. I just mean that in order for it to manifest, you have to believe in it. So time, time is something that you can escape energetically. And so one way that we do this in yogic practice is through asana. In asana practice, when we're performing the asanas, we place ourselves in static positions. And in these static positions, we allow our awareness of time to melt away. So when you're practicing asana with the goal of overcoming the mind, overcoming the time attachment, don't count. Unless you really need to count for the purpose of a specific asana, do not count. Let your awareness of time fade away. If you need to set a timer, do your practice within that time span and forget about the timer. If you can't get all of your asanas finished within that time period, that's okay. The important thing is that you detach from time. You give yourself the space to exist within your body, let yourself fall into the body and let time fade away. This is one way that we lose the time attachment. And in fact, for most people, it is the most powerful means of losing the time attachment. And there's many other methods that we could discuss, but that's a topic for another lecture. The key here is that time is an abstract concept in the mind that you need to get under control. Because if you're always focusing on time, the attachment is going to lead you into places of compulsion. It's like the old Black Flag song clocked in I'm tired, 2 o'clock and I can't get loose. See, and that's what modernity does. It ties you to a clock and you feel like you can't get loose. But there is a way. And when you. When you become master of time, when you become like Saturn and you become master of time, then you can integrate time as your weapon, your tool. You have the power over time and you have the ability to perceive time in different ways, which is one of the interesting phenomena that is experienced in the Vishudi, and that is the slowing down of time. Many people report that when they enter into the Vishudi, they feel the slowing of time, or they might feel that time is speeding up, but there is time distortion. This time distortion is just a demonstration of the fact that the energetic experience of time is something that is malleable. It's not so set in stone as you might assume. Now, I mentioned solipsism. There's something really interesting about the vishudi, and that's that a lot of people, when they enter in the Visuddhi, they start to believe that everything is of the mind. And the reason for this is because the Vishudi is the point of introspection. The manipura, which is the adversarial state to the visuddhi, is expressive and the vishudi is introspective. So the introspective nature of the Vishuddhi is really interesting because it's the only aspect of consciousness that is entirely internalized. When you express an idea, you're doing that by connecting to the manipura. That's the point of expression. The idea itself remains internal until it is expressed. The mind is internal. And because the mind is internal, when you operate from a rooted point in the mind, there is a tendency to feel a great internalization of everything. And the extreme manifestation of this is to become totally internalized, to become a hermit, which is a common maladjustment of individuals rooted in the Vishudi. Within modernity, excuse me, there is a tendency to become isolated. And isolation is something that can occur to anyone who has an overstimulated mind. The feeling of sound, light, sensation becoming a disturbance of the mind, which is something that is often associated with autism. This occurs within the Vishudi because when you become increasingly introspective, the outside world becomes intolerable. And so if you are severed from your gut and you're existing within the mental space, you can manifest these symptoms of the radical introspection. And this is where solipsism begins to develop. So in the mild cases of this, you might just begin to think that your ideas are the only ideas that matter and you create this intellectual arrogance. The new atheist movement is full of this kind of maladjustment in the Vishudi, where people like Sam Harris believe they have the answers to fucking everything. And they want to tell you that this is the way the universe is. And, you know, there's. There's just no arguing with it. I'm the reasonable one, right? Well, that's the kind of intellectual arrogance that is generated in a maladjusted aspect of the Vishudi. And anyone can fall prey to it, not just people who are rooted in the Vishudi. Anybody can suffer from this. So what happens is when you become increasingly introspective, you feel like, okay, I'm detached from the outside world. I'm the only thing that really matters. And it goes from I'm the only thing that really matters to I'm the only thing that really exists. And that's when you get into dangerous territory. That's when you get into the really intense existential crisis, the existential nausea that permeates much of modernity and feeling like you can't trust anything. That's when the radical skepticism sets in. And the radical skepticism is what leads to things like mass atheism. So many people develop this intellectual arrogance and they believe that they have all the answers and they would never entertain something like magic. They certainly would not entertain the kind of shit that we involve ourselves in in this school, like actually summoning entities, interacting with entities, doing things that people would consider to be miraculous. They wouldn't entertain those things. They would just write it off and say, oh, no, that's just ridiculous. Those people are just an occult. They're all brainwashed, you know, and they. They're fucking nuts or whatever. So they would just basically shit on anything that doesn't exist outside of the mind. Well, of course they're going to do that, because that's all that they really engage with is the mind. And that's all they place value in. They don't place value in spiritual experience. They don't place value in emotions. Emotions are something that get in the way. They don't place value in the body. And so they don't exercise the body. They shrivel up. They become little fucking pathetic worms. That's what happens to these people. And you can, you can see the diseased mind when you observe someone who just refuses to exercise the body, refuses to consider the experiential nature of spirit, refuses to engage with their emotions. Someone who becomes cold and dead inside and becomes an absolute physical piece of shit on the outside. These people are all over the place now, all over the place. Because the mind becomes the vessel for all the things that matter in the world. And all of those people who are placed in their intellectual wheelchair as a child, just because they operate from the mind doesn't mean they're going to be smart people. Doesn't mean they're going to be wise. There's a big difference between intellect and wisdom. And most of these people who are highly intellectual lack wisdom. Those fat motherfuckers at Walmart. Most of them are highly intellectual people. And by highly intellectual, I mean all they ever fucking do is consume things within the mental space. They sit in front of a goddamn TV or they hold their phone up to their face. And they absorb things directly into their mind. And they don't work out their body, they don't give a shit about their body. They don't care about their emotions. They take pills in order to stifle their emotional expression. They don't care about the spirit. You know, unless maybe they go to church every once in a while. But they don't really engage with the spirit the way that we do in this school and the way that other yogins do in other parts of the world. No, what they do is they just exist within this atrophied mind space, right? And it's hilarious to call the fucking mama bear at Walmart an intellectual person, but they are highly intellectual. It's just, they're not smart, they're dumbasses. But you know, if you're highly intellectual, that doesn't guarantee that you're going to be a wise person. And we need to break that fucking dogma right now. And also another dogma that needs to be thrown aside is the idea that everyone who is naturally intellectual has to be a pathetic little scrawny son of a bitch because. Or a fat ass neckbeard who sits on fucking 4chan all day long and jerks off to their goddamn meme war or whatever the fuck they're doing. We need to get rid of that idea. This idea that if you're an intellectual person, you should just sit around in total sloth and play video games all day long. It's ridiculous. And it's so broken and so disconnected from tradition, because here's what's so fucking funny about it. People who are rooted in the Vishudi are supposed to be the natural warriors of a culture

The Vishudi is the place of chivalry, knighthood, bushido, the samurai. It's the place of the law, the word, the order that is upheld by the sword. In Western esotericism, I have connected the sword to the Vishudi. With the sword, you uphold the law, the word, the mental matrix. You cut through the bullshit and establish grounding in the mind. And with the sword, you make a point, you make your intellectual point and you stand by it. And you create your armor, your cold armor that you utilize in order to navigate the world. This is part of your matrix. This is technology. All of the great technology that we find in modernity. This is an aspect of the Vishudi. It's a beautiful aspect of the Vishudi. But it becomes self destructive when we do not combine it with the other elements of the self. When we do not approach things from a holistic standpoint. The whole thing becomes degenerated. It becomes a self destructive mess, an absolute maelstrom of total bullshit. And so what we need for the world to reach some semblance of healthy mind is for the warrior spirit of the Vishudi to be cultivated once again. All of those neck beards you see in Gamestop, they're supposed to be knights. All of those Ichabod Crane looking in universities all throughout the globe, they're supposed to be samurai, but instead they're ronin. They are masterless samurais because they don't have a system that's worthy of upholding, they don't have a king worthy of following. And because they lack a society that is worthy of defending. What do they do? Their armor rusts, their sword dulls and their bodies atrophy and their mind atrophies. And they seek out stimulation of the mind in surrogate activities like video games. The reason why video games are so popular is because these men and women who are supposed to be nightly people need adventure. They need to feel like they're accomplishing something. They interact with these fantasy worlds that create conditions that they wish they could see around them, but unfortunately do not exist in the wider culture. But guess what? They do exist in pockets. They do exist in subcultures, and they do exist in countercultures. And this school is one such counterculture that upholds the healthy expression of the mind, which is represented by the night, which is represented by the samurai, and which is an aspect of the mind that I will see reborn on this earth if it's the last fucking thing that I do.
