# rtt lecture - Basic Yogic Protection

Protection is extremely important in any yogic practice, true yoga practice. Because when you are practicing yoga, you're dealing with extremely dangerous avenues of power. This is why Lord Rama cut the head off the shudra who was practicing asceticism. Because if the wrong person is exposed to yoga, they will lose their head, they will lose their mind and their spirit. If you're going to practice yoga in the true form, the first thing that you have to do is realize that you are exposing yourself to danger. In fact, it's probably the most dangerous thing that you can do, because what is at stake is the health of your body, your health, your emotional health, your mental health, and your very spirit. Your soul too, which is a culmination of all these things, is at stake when you're practicing yoga. And yoga is just another form of magic. So what I am describing in this lecture is applicable to virtually all magic practices. The concepts are perennial. Now, in developing protective practices within yoga, you have to recognize the principle of the esoteric and the exoteric. And in this sense, we are applying the esoteric as that which is subtle and the exoteric as that which is natural. This isn't always how we use the term esoteric and exoteric, but for this discussion, this is how we will use these terms. There are subtle protections that you may apply in your yoga practice, and there are natural protections. What's the difference? That which is subtle is that which is more aligned to the spirit. These are contemplative practices. That which is natural is more aligned to the blood or that which is physical. And these are active practices. All of these practices are yogic. All of these practices are magical practices. Even things that may seem mundane to most have a magical element in the context of yoga. Now, if we're applying a yogic approach to developing protection, it is necessary to employ the chakras, because the chakras are the framework for recognizing the various elements of the self. And if you're going to be safe in your yoga practice, you have got to safeguard each of these aspects, each of these elements. So in this discussion, I'm going to start at the Muladhara and move up the spine to the Sahasra. And at each stage, I'm going to discuss both the subtle and natural practices, essential practices that you can utilize in order to be safe in yoga. Now, before I begin advancing up the spine, I want to make note of the fact that there are many, many other practices that you can utilize in order to safeguard yourself, and many practices that are highly specific to certain threats. This Discussion is just a general guide to bringing yourself towards awareness of safety and specific threats or general threats as well that may be present in your practice. Also, it must be noted that if you are practicing yoga, you are becoming a greater target to both subtle and natural threats. As you grow in power, there are certain entities or certain individuals in the natural world that are going to want what you possess. They are going to try to take power from you. Or there are certain beings that, due to their lack of soul, due to their lack of awareness of beauty, are only able to see hollowness. And therefore they try to bring everything to this state of emptiness. And there are those who turn their awareness only to that which is ugly. And these individuals, possessing only awareness of that which is ugly and a slight contrast of that which is beautiful, they reflect this internal state of ugliness into the world. And these individuals will attack. So you have to protect yourself from these attacks. Protect yourself from your subtle enemies and your natural enemies. Be aware of their presence. Be aware of the fact that as you grow in power, the potential for conflict, the potential for greater enemies also grows. But you can counteract this by putting into place the necessary protections to keep yourself preserved in yoga. Okay, let's begin with the muladhara. The muladhara is the blood body. This is your physical foundation. So we will start with the exoteric natural practices. Now, some of these practices are also complementary, or they are the same practices as the subtle practices, but I'm going to describe them in the context of their natural application. First, we have asana. Asana is very important for keeping your body healthy. You need to have a healthy body in order to have a solid foundation for health in all other aspects of the self. Daily practice of asana is important to have a solid foundation. Asana ensures that you will have a healthy flow of blood. You'll remove old, stagnated blood from your organs, bring fresh oxygenated blood into the body, and build that healthy foundation. You'll also preserve the health of your joints, the entire musculoskeletal system, and you'll be increasing flexibility, mobility, control of your body and body awareness. All of these things are essential in order to be able to utilize the physical aspect of your body to its fullest expression. And if you're able to do that, you're going to be in a better position to keep yourself safe. Now, when you're practicing asana, it's important that you take a slow, careful, reasonable progression in your practice. Don't push yourself too far. If you are feeling really intense Pain you need to stop. You need to protect yourself from the ego and its tendency to draw you towards extremes that can knock you out of balance. Now, sometimes extremes are necessary for balance. But if you are pushing yourself too hard in your physical practice, you're succumbing to one of the greatest threats within yoga, which is the ego. You've always got to be aware of the poison of the ego. Now, the muladhar is associated with shelter, food, water, all the central physical survival resources. So making sure you have a home or some shelter that you're able to defend is necessary. It is yogic to possess the necessary weapons in order to defend yourself. It is yogic to establish the necessary border boundary to defend yourself physically. Also, it is yogic to ensure that your food supply and water supply are clean and healthy. These are absolutely essential yogic practices. Shelter that you can defend, your resources for defending your shelter, Food, water, any aspect of yogic philosophy that ultimately rejects the right to self defense. Shelter, healthy food, clean water. These practices can serve a purpose, but you have to apply them with great care because these practices are incredibly dangerous. So recognizing that on the left hand, the self can only be preserved if you are able to keep the body intact physically, yes, you can take the poisons that can bring you towards transcendence. You can take the poisons that can bring you into alignment with a specific outcome. You can do that. But always be clear that your physical foundation is at stake. It is at risk. And so you've got to make an assessment of your physical foundation with these practices. Keeping the blood clean, keeping the blood pure, defending the blood. Now, what are the esoteric, subtle aspects of protection in the Muladhara? Blood magic is a brutal practice. It's very intense, vulgar in its expression. It's immediate voodoo is a good example of a Muladhara magical tradition. You need to protect yourself from blood magic when you are utilizing heavily physical substances in order to bring about a specific result. In your yoga practice, you are engaging to some degree in blood magic. So for example, if you're creating potions, if you are consuming certain types of food as part of a ritual, working, if you are cutting yourself and giving blood to the gods, these are all aspects of Muladhara magic. You should not ever utilize any physical substance in your practice unless you are totally aware of the the nature of that substance, how it may impact you and the origin of that substance. If you're going to utilize any sort of physical substance in your practice, you have to be very careful to ensure that it has not been tainted because you might come under influence by an outside force if you are given the wrong thing. For example, I know of personally instances of individuals who have conducted ritual work where they were growing mushrooms for psychedelic drug use, and these mushrooms were grown with malice. So rituals were conducted over these mushrooms so that the individual who took the mushrooms would have a really bad trip, and they had a really bad trip. If you're going to gain access to physical materials for blood magic, you've got to make sure that you're doing it in a way that is safe. You're getting it from someone you trust. Now, if you're giving blood in ritual work, you're opening up a pathway to the material, to physical influence. The cutting of the body in ritual work can lead to the opening of what is called the red door, which is a very strong pathway to possession. So you've got to be careful. If you're going to utilize blood magic, you have to ensure that you're doing so in bhakti to deities that you have a strongly benevolent relationship with or under the guidance of a guru who you trust. Let's move on to the Svadistana. So for the Svadistana, we are dealing with taste, identity, your place in the social hierarchy. The natural threats associated with this vadistana in the yogic practice are reputational threats. So, for example, if you're engaged in a yogic practice, it's very difficult to describe the context of your practice to the shudras, because your place in the social hierarchy as a yogin is elevated. The things that you're involved in are not accessible conceptually to shudras. So you have to be very careful with what you expose. If you expose too much of your image to the wrong people, you can come under threat, you can come under legal attacks, smear campaigns, you can ruin your reputation in a small town. I've experienced all of these things. So with the Svadhisthana, you've got to be aware of how people are going to perceive you in your practice. Like I said in the beginning, yoga drives people insane, including people who have practiced it for years. You can fall off the horse, and when you do, you can get into some dark places. Common people, when they're exposed to any aspect of actual yoga, it's just there's a visceral reaction. An example, recently, I've been doing a lot of barefoot walking in this area. Now I'm in the rural south in the United States, the Bible Belt. So quite often I'll be stopped by someone When I'm just walking out in a rural area barefoot, which you'd think would be normal in the country. But no, I've been told multiple times that that's strange. Or people say, you know, are you all right? What's going on? That's because shudras can sense the presence of something that is strange outside of the ordinary, and they react very strongly. So you've got to be aware of this fact. If you're practicing yoga, you basically carry the cremation grounds along with you. Depending upon how deep you are into the cremation grounds, you're going to cause some reaction in people. So being aware of this fact that you carry the cremation grounds with you, that you have a frightening presence just by the very fact that you practice yoga, this will allow you to ensure that your interactions with the public are to your benefit. Control of information is absolutely important. For some of us. We like to represent ourselves with a certain rawness. And that in itself can be a protective measure. Because if you let everyone know that you should not be fucked with, otherwise something bad might happen. That in itself can be a protective measure. But whatever measure you apply needs to be in alignment with your dharma. Absolutely. Though you should be aware of your place in the social hierarchy and the manner in which individuals perceive you from an esoteric perspective. Let's talk about the subtle aspect of this vadistana and keeping yourself safe in this area. Your personal information, your identity, can be used against you in many ways. In black magic, for example, sentimental magic utilizes personal items, physical items, or images associated with a person. If you have a lot of images of yourself on social media, you might want to think twice about allowing those to be so accessible. Because if someone decides to target you, they can use your image. Now, if you're a public figure, this is hard to to deal with. Certain protections can be put in place bhakti to protective deities. This is a practice that is essential at each state of consciousness within each chakra. You need to be practicing bhakti in order to ensure that you are protected from attacks. This is really the only effective way to keep yourself protected from these attacks. If you're a public figure, you need to be setting boundaries. Now, bhakti takes many forms, and like I said, this is applicable for all chakras. So these are just general protective practices. Now that I'm speaking on, developing a relationship with protective deities. And those deities should be in alignment with your dharma or your purposes in your practice. Lighting incense. Incense, when it's lit with the proper Intention. The point of the incense is that energy or prana is taken into the smoke and it's carried away. That is why it is purifying. Sage is also purifying in this sense, because the smoke pulls the prana in and carries it away. So purifying your environment with smoke of some sort is a good general practice. And mantra, mantra can be utilized daily. Meditative practices in general, all to bring yourself into clarity so that you can recognize danger. These are ways that you can protect yourself even if your information is publicly available. Another piece of information that you should be very careful about sharing is anything relating to your birth date or your place of birth or time of birth, anything relating to your astrological profile. Because access to your astrological profile will allow someone to hone their attacks. And these attacks can be both natural attacks in the physical environment as well as subtle attacks. So be very careful with who you share this information with. Now let's move on to the manipura. Okay. Attacks involving the manipura are attacks upon the emotional center, expressive center. In terms of natural attacks, there is within this chakra, the start of a difficulty in identifying what is natural and what is subtle in terms of threats. And that's because we're moving towards the anahata, which is the point of balance. And then beyond that, we're entering into the contemplative states, which are far more subtle. So in terms of the natural attacks, there's a lot of overlap with subtle. Repression of emotional expression in order to gain control over an individual is one of the most common attacks that you have to watch out for. So this happens in society at large. Entire social orders are developed in order to restrict emotional expression and also to restrict creativity. Emotions are an aspect of creativity. So, for example, intense censorship within the government, within the private sector, these are things that you have to avoid. You've got to find an outlet for that expression. Because if you repress your emotions, if you repress your creativity, if you allow these attacks to be carried out against you, you're going to lose your ability to act. The manipura is the seed of your inner fire. So you've got to make sure that you have an outlet for your emotions, that you have an outlet for your creativity. And that is why it is so important to keep yourself healthy in this area by pursuing a passion project, some type of artistic endeavor, whether that's playing an instrument, writing, acting as a mother or father to your children, whatever. It could be anything, but it needs to be a passionate expression, not something that you just do for A job. The passion element is important because that's where emotion meets with creativity and vice versa. Now, in terms of the subtle attacks, impacting the emotional center is one way that you can be heavily influenced by black magic. There are specific entities that can cause you to become very reactive to things, to become very angry, very fiery in your expression, and will continue to torment you in that area until you burn yourself up. You'll be burned out by this process, and you'll no longer be able to act against whatever this is. So you have to protect yourself from exhaustion, emotional exhaustion. How do you do this? Well, you have to be aware of the presence of these entities. And if necessary, you need to utilize some kind of cleansing, like burning incense, burning sage, or in extreme examples of oppression, utilizing techniques for expulsion, exorcism. Now, expulsion and exorcism is something that demands separate lecture, but that is an option for really intense oppression or possession. And if you're not aware of how to conduct exorcism or expulsion, you need to find someone who is able to do that. You can come under the control of a powerful magician or yogin if they are able to utilize the necessary chronic channels to stimulate your emotions. So having those creative outlets can be a way of expelling from your body negative influences. Let's say you're coming under attack, magical attack, and you're feeling deep sadness, deep anger. If you internalize that expression and attach yourself to it, you can begin to obsess over the source. But the sinister thing about magical attacks like this is that you won't know the source. You won't know the source initially. It won't make sense. You'll just come under some influence. And that's part of the trick, because you're constantly searching for the foundation of the experience of these intense negative emotions. So instead of obsessing over the source, now, the source can be important, because if you're under serious oppression, this is a continual problem. And maybe you need to seek out the help of tantra, master or some exorcist who's able to expel whatever is afflicting you. But if it's a lesser attack, and we're under the influence of lesser attacks all the time in society, because, like, for example, Solomonic magic, which is the foundation of the Jewish power structure, is based upon utilizing demons in order to control society. So there's demonic influence all over the place, and there is angelic influence all over the place. Both of these things can afflict you. So they can afflict us in minor ways. Most people are heavily influenced by these things. Now the, the power of these attacks are dispersed throughout society. So because of the dispersal of these demonic and angelic influences, the effects aren't so strong on people who have heightened awareness. But like I said, as you grow in power, you become a target for more concentrated attacks. So it's easy for you to utilize basic practices as a yogin to eliminate all of the minor impacts that are part of the general social order. But if you come under a more concentrated attack, you definitely need to have some plan in place, some general practice that will allow you to keep yourself safe and having a good foundation in emotional health, where you have people who you can rely upon for emotional support in a healthy way, because you don't want to drag other people into a unhealthy cycle of obsessing over these negative emotions. And also a creative pursuit that allows you to expel all of these destructive things. When I say destructive things, I don't just mean sadness, I don't just mean anger. Because happiness can become destructive if it's directed towards the right channel. You can be destroyed by happiness. So you've got to be able to reflect on the nature of your emotions. And creative practices are one of the best, if not the best way, yoga speaking, to be able to achieve this self awareness. Now this is why many Hindu temples will require priests at the temple to play a musical instrument. Because music within tantra is a very important magical practice that is part of purification. Krishna with his flute. His flute allows him. He is a Manipura deity. His flute allows him to reflect upon his emotional state, to take his fire, transform it into something that is magically beneficial. Now let's move on to the Anahata. And there's some overlap between the Anahata and the Manipura in regards to emotion and passion. The Anahata is a relational place. So oftentimes within yoga, you've got to be careful about how you interact with other people in a purely relational sense. One of the greatest protections that you can form in a yoga practice is to be part of a circle. So this school, for example, is a circle. It's a tantric circle. And we all give each other power and we take power from the group, and this is highly beneficial. If you're part of a circle, you can help others to identify attacks against them. You can bring cumulative support in order to overcome attacks. And so there is definitely strength in numbers. There's also the fact that certain individuals have natural skills that you can gain access to when you are in A circle. From a physical standpoint, this might include. Or a natural standpoint, this might include monetary resources, the ability to utilize technology, the ability to speak, to influence, the ability to utilize weapons, to procure natural resources. There's many different things that individuals in your group can contribute. And it's important that within your circle you have a variety of people. And the way that you achieve this is through bringing together individuals of different rooted consciousness. You need people representing the entire spectrum of consciousness. This is something that I have willfully pursued in the formation of this circle. The school Ride the Tiger Yoga, the inner circle of Ride the Tiger Yoga, is comprised of individuals of every state of consciousness. The full spectrum of consciousness is represented. And this is something that I wish to maintain moving forward because we are all made more powerful by the fact that the full spectrum of consciousness is represented. We all have natural talents that are related to our rooted consciousness. And this isn't just within the natural space. This is also within subtle space. So, for example, within subtle space, if you have a circle, a relational circle where all rooted consciousness is represented, you'll have individuals who are powerful in expressing the energetic clarity of emotion. These are the Manipura individuals. You'll have individuals who are able to create a purifying presence by being outside of Guna. These are the Sahastra individuals. There's all different formations of subtle impact of the presence of these individuals within your circle. And the best way to ensure the health of your circle is to make sure that these individuals are placed within their proper role and are empowered in their role. Sahasra individuals are natural priests. They are interested in preserving the purity of the spirit. Svadistana individuals are natural artisans, taste makers. They are natural Vaishya. They don't. They don't have to be Vaishya, but they are natural merchants in this sense. Merchants of ideas, merchants of energetic expression. All of these individuals representing these states of consciousness have their natural role. And so you should help these individuals to find their role and, and give them power in their role and refer to them when there is a threat present or whenever you're forming a defense against those threats. Because the thing about protection in the Anahata is knowing that your heart does not just belong to you. If you're in a circle, if you're in a relationship with, or if you're in a romantic relationship with someone, you share your heart. And so you have to make sure that you recognize this shared heart. You have to make sure that you're forming this bond with others. And that bond can itself come under attack. So you've got to work together to ensure that that bond is protected. Having faith in one another, having devotion in one another, proving to each other consistently that you can trust one another, but also being willing to forgive, being willing to show mercy to those who are in your circle. This is essential in order to make sure that the heart is preserved and protected. This is the seat of will. So if we don't have those individuals who we can rely upon, if we don't have those individuals who we can be devoted to express love towards, this impacts our will. Now it's also important on the flip side of this to not become too attached to the group identity, because then you can dissolve. So you also have to take a moment to reflect on your own condition. If you become too obsessed with the behavior of those around you, you won't be able to assess your own expenditure of energy or taking of energy. So you need to conduct regularly an accounting of the prana that you are expelling. The apana and prana coming in. Let's move on to the Vishudi. So the Vishudi is the mind. The mind is something that is specifically under attack. Not so much now, because we are moving into the Ajna age. During the Vishuddhi age, which is over, we are in the Ajna age now. During the Vishuddhi age, the attacks upon the mind were very pointed in terms of physical attacks, the distractions which are present and continue to be present. Because though we have left the Vishudi age and we are now in the age of Ajna, which I'll be speaking on soon, this shift between ages and its significance, though we have left, there are still elements of this attack of the mind and they will remain present. Because in this new age we are going to be split between the mind and the spirit. There are institutional frameworks which are designed to make you question your own ability to reason, also to undermine your ability to reason. The education system does not do a very good job of teaching people how to think effectively. And that is by design. Because if you want to create a population of good slaves to serve Abraham and his cult, you have got to undermine reason. And it's funny because the cult of so called reason is often employed as a means of undermining the ability to reason. So you've got to be aware of the tricks that are used within the natural world. And once again, because we are moving now into the contemplative states with the Vishudi, the overlap between that which is subtle and that which is natural becomes even more intense. So much so that I can say that all of the attacks I'm mentioning now from the Vishudi on have both a natural and subtle element that is almost indistinguishable. Okay, so in terms of the use of distraction to undermine the ability of your mind to function effectively, the media, public education, the social structure at all levels, there are mental matrices that exist within each of these areas that are attempting to implant within your mind certain ideas. If you direct Prana towards these ideas, you will begin to absorb them. The mark of a healthy mind is being able to entertain an idea without accepting it. But most people are not able to do this. Most people, if they read a book, they have a tendency to accept what they have read. If they don't accept what they have read, they feel that they've wasted their time. You've got to train yourself as a yogin to read things, to experience ideas with the purpose, express purpose of entertaining those concepts that you do not agree with that are ridiculous. So, for example, I know that Das Kapital is full of economic theory. That is trash. But I read Das Kapital because I was interested in entertaining the ideas presented by Marx as a test of my ability to experience these ideas for pleasure. And I know that sounds crazy. Why the hell would I read Marx for pleasure? But I am personally interested in political economy. So I've read. I've read Rawls and I've read Milton Friedman and Murray Rothbard and all of these people. And just because I read, for example, something from the Austrian school or Adam Smith, something from the Chicago school, or just because I've read, like Rawlsian theory or Bastiat. Just because I've read this stuff doesn't mean I have to accept it. At this point in my life, I accept very little of any of that shit. But it's still a good exercise to expose yourself to ideas that you don't agree with, because it gives you autonomy in your mind, it grants you autonomy. And the same can be said for interacting with entities in subtle space. In it's important to entertain the presence of energies that you may not agree with or that may be challenging for you without accepting them, because you can learn about the nature of those things as they relate to your mind, your internal matrix, and then you can begin to question your internal matrix without changing it. The mind is a grounding point. It's the contemplative grounding point. It serves a grounding purpose for contemplation in the way that the muladhara serves as a grounding point for activity. So it's important to be solid in your mind, because if you don't have some solid element within your mind, you can be drawn in many different directions and and lose the plot at the same time. It's important to have some mental flexibility so that if there's some aspect of the mental matrix that is no longer serving you, you can reject it and you can replace it with something else. But you can only safely do this if you are able to entertain the presence of something that is challenging. Now, how do you entertain the presence of something that is challenging and is safe way? You've got to take baby steps. We're now veering into a discussion of subtle space when we're talking about an interaction between the mind and entities of other dimensions of consciousness. So let's move on to the Ajna. When you're interacting with subtle space, you have to perceive this realm, the subtle realm I'm speaking of, in terms of the waters and the sand. So the Ajna is like the beach and you've got a stretch of sand, and then you have the ocean. The ocean is the spirit. The sand is your connection to the mind. If your feet are planted firmly in the sand, you can still look out and perceive the ocean. You can see that it's there, but you're grounded. There's no risk of a shark jumping up and biting you. The moment that you dip your toes into the water, you're starting to move into the realm of spirit. This is when you're drifting deeper into subtle space. And the further out you go into the water, the deeper you get into the spirit and the more dangerous it becomes. So a good way to protect yourself in your yogic practice within the Ajna is to tread lightly, move slowly into the waters. Don't just run off onto the pier and jump into the deep water. That's a good way to get eaten. You've got to protect yourself. You've got to put on the proper gear. You've got to hone your skills in swimming in subtle space. You've got to practice spirit walking. You've got to practice interacting with entities in meditation, various forms of meditation. You've got to expose yourself slowly to these things. Taking this slow approach will give you a solid foundation in navigating subtle space. But even the most seasoned divers can still encounter a great, great white shark. Even the most seasoned diver can still find himself in trouble. So don't become so egotistical in your practice that you think you're invincible in interacting with subtle space because there's always the potential for danger. And the problem with subtle space is that the influence is subtle. You can be under oppression and not know it for an entire year until something bad happens and you start to trace back all of the little events that seemed to not be connected but were in fact all part of this process leading you to this outcome. So what's important is to conduct a regular assessment of the spiritual conditions surrounding you. How do you do this? You need to be in a regular meditation practice, whether that's Trataka in Tarmana or one of the thousands of other meditative practices. You need to have just a general scanning, scanning of the self, scanning of your surroundings. If you identify something that is out of place, you need to bring your awareness to it. But don't fall into the trap of becoming obsessively aware of these things, because there are many aspects, subtle aspects around us at any given time. And if you place too much prana, too much awareness on any one of these subtle aspects, you can start to draw those things towards you. So be careful with where you're drawing your attention. If you draw your attention towards destructive things, if you draw your attention towards malicious things, you'll bring them to you eventually. Well, at least most people will. There are some who are able to consistently draw their awareness to those things and be safe, but that's because they've established a very specific practice. For the most part, we should be very careful with where we direct our energy. And we need to have good housekeeping, we need to have altars towards benevolent deities in our space. We need to light incense, we need to practice puja. We need to develop relationships with deities that will protect us. These are our guardian spirits. Having these relationships in place are good not only for the passive protective elements, but also we can call upon these entities when we need help. Don't wait until you're under attack to start developing a positive relationship with the gods. Do it now, because if you have shown faith in the gods, they are part of your circle, they're part of your yogic circle, your tantric circle. And so if you have been a faithful devotee, devotee to the gods, they will reward you, they will protect you. Now let's move on to the Sastra. Spiritual pollution is a very important thing to be aware of in the Sasha. You need to establish barriers, you need to establish grounding at this point. This aspect of the self is so subtle that you really can't tell the difference between the physical aspect and the subtle aspect. In fact, the sahasra is part of the subtle body. So it exists just above the physical body. And so making sure that you're protected in the sashura includes creating a field around yourself, a protective field, willfully saying, I will not accept something into me that is not benevolent or good for me. Reaffirming this autonomy of the spirit through your practices. This can be integrated into your puja. This can be integrated into any aspect of your bhakti work. This can be integrated into your asana practice, your meditative practices, all of it. If you have come under some type of spiritual pollution, you need to ground yourself. So, for example, something as simple as walking barefoot, standing on the earth with your feet to the ground as a way to cleanse yourself of the presence of any sort of spiritual pollution, this is a great protective exercise. And spiritual purity comes as a result of recognizing your dharma and integrating your Dharma into your spiritual practices. So unifying with those things that are part of your dharma, that is going to keep you safe. If you are engaged in some aspect of spiritual warfare, you need to prepare yourself. You need to put on your armor, your spiritual armor. And that just consists of all of those practices that improve the health of the subtle body. All the meditative exercises, asana practice, bhakti that I've mentioned thus far, and the myriad of other practices that you have access to for specific threats, which we're not going to get into tonight, but I will be discussing specific threats and protective measures in the future. Now, one final thing I want to say in this lecture is that if you have come under attack, you've got to assess your health at each aspect of the self. Do what is necessary to ensure your safety. And once you have expelled the presence, recognize that though you were a victim of an attack, at one point, you are no longer a victim. If you continue to bring your awareness towards victimhood, you will remain a victim. Victimhood cannot be permanent. Victimhood must be expelled from your awareness. You must become a survivor, not a victim. There is no victimhood. You are a survivor. Once you are aware of the fact that you are a survivor of any given attack, whether it's physical or metaphysical, that's when you regain faith in yourself and you gain power from the experience. That which does not kill you makes you stronger. But only if you see yourself as a survivor, only if you recognize that you were not killed, you continue to live in strength. And if you can continue to live in strength and ensure strength in every aspect of the self, in all aspects of Prana. Then you will be protected. You will be preserved in your yoga practice.