# rtt lecture - Tantra Experimentation and Experience

So I'm really excited to talk about tantra as it is. When practiced with the greatest efficacy, when practiced with the true essence of the tradition. Tantra is not confined to the dusty pages of ancient books, and it's not confined to the it internal thought process of an old man sitting in an ashram. Tantra is alive. It's something that we can touch, we can feel, and it ought to be something that we can touch and we can feel. Because the idea behind tantra is that you are utilizing the material universe as the foundation for exploring consciousness. And of course, tantra, being alive is influenced by the age that we are living in. We are living in the age of Shakti, the age of the divine feminine, the age of the blood, the body and the earth, which is the most evident element that we experience from birth. And so you ought to be able to touch, to feel. Tantra, it's got to be something that you can interact with. And essentially, tantra is experiential and it's also experimental because things that are alive, things that are dynamic, they are things that you can interact with, things that can give you positive outcomes, things that can give you negative outcomes. Sometimes they're predictable and sometimes they're not. And that's the thing that is misunderstood about tantra and so many other traditions that are really tantric at their core. These traditions, if they are truly traditional, which is big T traditional like what Julius Evola or Gennan or any of the other great traditionalists, the systems that they were discussing, they are alive, they are perennial. They exist outside of the cycle of time. Now, like I said, the place that we exist within, in reference to the cycle of time does have an influence. And that is why tantra in the present age is a system that begins in the physical world. It begins with the natural expression, and that is the foundation. But of course, tantra is holistic. So we also recognize within tantra the subtle aspect. We have the natural world and the subtle world. We have our natural senses and our subtle senses, and we have order, which is of a subtle category, and we have chaos, which is of a natural category. And of course, all of these things are interacting in this grand symphony of expression or introspection, contemplation, creation, all of these things coming together to make up what we experience as consciousness. And consciousness is something that goes beyond our immediate awareness. It is something that we can tap into and understand from so many different angles. It is dynamic, it is complex. And recognizing this, we can embrace both the order and the chaos of the universe. Of the cosmos itself and recognize that we are experimenting with consciousness when we practice tantra. Sometimes those experiments go right, Sometimes those experiments go wrong. It's just like science, except it's better, because science does not recognize the significance of the subtle world, or what scientists would refer to as the supernatural. The assumption within science is that there is only that which is natural. And everything that is considered to be supernatural is something that will someday be explained away as part of the natural world. But that is a major metaphysical claim that no scientist can actually back up because it relies on faith. Faith in the idea that there is only, elementally speaking, that which is natural. But I can distinguish right now between that which is natural and that which is subtle. When you hear vibration in the air coming from a stereo, and you hear that vibration and it enters your ear, you're hearing music, and you're hearing it with your natural senses. Those are the senses which are associated with the physical world, which is the natural world. Physicality and nature are inseparable. But what about when you hear music in your mind? You have a song that is stuck in your head. If you heard that clamoring, the cat just knocked her food bowl over. You have. You have a song in your mind, a sound in your mind. But there is no stereo. There are no vibrations on the wind. This is just something that you hear. Where is that coming from? I'll tell you where it's coming from. It's coming from subtle space. And what you are experiencing is subtle hearing. And there are so many applications of this, because the depth of the natural world is matched by the depth of the subtle world, as above, so below. And I know this because I have experienced this. And that's the key here, because tantra is not a religion. It is a system. It is a methodology for exploration. And what are we exploring? We are exploring consciousness in all of its facets. We are exploring the cosmos, which we recognize as consciousness. And everything around us is an aspect of consciousness. There is no such thing as unconscious, because if something is unconscious, it means it does not exist. It is not perceptible in any way. There are modes of consciousness that are accessible to us. And just because we are not accessing those modes of consciousness does not mean that they are not present and influencing us in some way. What really makes the difference in assessing consciousness is awareness, Bringing your awareness to a specific aspect of your environment, bringing your awareness to a specific aspect of your internal structure. And that's what we're doing with tantra. We are bringing our awareness to Something specific so that we can explore its nature. That is the core of tantra. So if we are conducting experiments, what does that mean for the Tantric practitioner? How should you go about structuring your practice if the tradition relies upon experience and experimentation? Here's what you have to do. You have to begin by first recognizing that anyone who willfully explores consciousness is practicing tantra, Just like anyone who willfully explores the natural world through the application of the scientific method is practicing science. But that doesn't mean that everyone who practices tantra is good at it. Just like it doesn't mean that everyone who applies a scientific method possesses the skills to really understand the essence of a given science. Recognizing this, we can begin to identify the difference between what is represented as tantra in our present age in a mainstream, easily digestible, easily marketable fashion. Specifically, I'm speaking of the Neo Tantra movement in the new age can recognize that and say, okay, yes, they're practicing tantra, but are they really getting to the nitty gritty, that depth of the tradition? Are they really expanding their awareness to the greatest heights? No, they're not. And why is that? Because they are content with approaching tantra with a limited perspective. Now, most of them are not aware of the fact that they are approaching tantra with a limited perspective because they haven't been exposed to the true depth, flexibility, complexity of this system. But I have to recognize that they are, in fact, practicing tantra. So how do you practice tantra with the greatest efficacy? First, you have to understand what is the nature of consciousness. How. How do we explore it? Well, I already said that consciousness is the cosmos. It is that which is essential, and it takes many forms. It is Brahman. It is that which is accessible in many alchemical formations or as oneness. These are all aspects of consciousness. Taking everything out to the macro level, we are all part of consciousness. This table that my equipment is sitting on is a conscious thing. Now, does it possess intelligence? Well, everything that exists has in some manner, some aspect of all of the elements that make up the cosmos. So, yes, in fact, there is an intelligence behind this table. Maybe it is the intelligence that gave birth to this table. But there is some link between this table and the mind. There's also a link between this table and emotion, spirit. And of course, we can see that this table possesses body. It possesses what we would call blood, prana, which is the raw physical material. Right? So that's the foundation of your experimentation, is recognizing what you are dealing with. What tools are you dealing with? You have to apply the holistic perspective in tantra before you can begin to experiment. Now, this is where people become limited. Because let's say your assumption in tantra is that it is a practice of sacred sexuality. And this is what Neo Tantra is rooted in, this idea of sacred sexuality as being the be all, end all of tantra. Well, that's extremely limiting because, yes, the cosmos is sex. Ultimately, all of the aspects of unification and yoga come back to the romantic, passionate relationship between the self and other and the self and the self loving the self or loving others. There's a sexual component to this. From an esoteric standpoint. I'm not just talking about, you know, penetrative sex, like material sex. I mean, sex as an idea, an emotion, a spirit. Yes, that's very important. But of course, that's not all that's important. And so if you're limiting your practice just to this sexual component, you have drawn yourself away from all of the depth that is accessible to you in tantra. Tantra is a great umbrella. And within this umbrella, you have many different practices that are accessible to you, all with the assumption that you are operating from the holistic perspective, perceiving all of the accessible elements to you, perceiving both the natural world and the subtle world. And so you have this grand umbrella. And under that umbrella, you have psychology, politics, medicine, geography, mathematics, economics, painting, asana practice, meditative exercise, mantra, yantra, all of these things, mudra, these are all forms of tantra. Yoga itself is just a subset of tantra. So we have under the umbrella of tantra all of these practices that are accessible to us. Now, of course, as I said, what makes the work that we do within these practice areas tantric is the fact that we are taking this holistic approach, but also very important. Tantra ultimately rejects taboo because within tantra, we are advancing towards truly free exploration of consciousness. And what that means is that if something works, it works. And we don't just reject it because it doesn't conform to our dogma. See, science claims to take this approach, but of course, science relies heavily upon dogma. Science relies heavily upon the dogma that there is only the natural world. Science relies heavily upon the dogma that the scientific method itself is the only legitimate way of gaining any sort of insight or knowledge about a specific subject. So we reject dogma as tantrics. We reject taboo. We recognize dharma. Dharma, which is simultaneously something that is heavily individuated and also unifying. And that seems like a paradox. But the thing about the cosmos is that it is Paradoxical. And Tantra actually gives you a pathway for transcending the paradox of the cosmos. Because we recognize potentiality, grand potentiality, we have the ability to experience that which is beyond the paradox of the cosmos. Experience. That is what is important. You don't have to apply faith to begin to practice Tantra. It is the grand destroyer of all religion, because religion relies upon dogma. Now, I'm not saying that you shouldn't practice a religion, because religion is a beautiful thing, it's a beautiful art if you practice it dharmically. But the dogma of religion, unless it is serving a higher dharmic purpose, is something that we, as tantrics, abandon. We throw it out. We act beyond dogma, beyond taboo, beyond good and evil. And ultimately, what we are doing is we are trying to understand ourselves. We are trying to understand others. We're trying to understand others in ways that carry such grand complexity, it's beyond words. Words can help you reach that point. Pictures can help you reach that point. Music can help you reach that point of understanding what we are trying to get at by practicing Tantra. But ultimately, these experiences simultaneously fail to give us the full expression. And they do. They do somehow give us the full expression if we possess the proper awareness. But we can only gain the proper awareness if we take those first few brave steps on the path towards learning, understanding. And the greatest journey that we can possibly experience begins with openness, openness to experience. Let me give you an analogy. You know, there's a heavy emphasis now on reading in esoteric circles. I call the people who are obsessed with reading read cells, because they are absolutely limiting themselves to words on paper. What happens to your journey as a Tantric if you limit yourself to words on paper? Well, think of this. Imagine that you are a musician, or you are an aspiring musician, and you want to learn how to play the saxophone. You want to play jazz. You want to be the next John Coltrane. What happens if you spend 10 years reading about music theory, reading about how John Coltrane composed and played Giant steps, reading about the making of all of your favorite records and all the ways that you can combine all of these different elements of music, and then after 10 years of reading, you decide to pick up a saxophone. Unless you're some kind of mutant who has some natural ability to just pick up an instrument and go, 10 years of reading is not going to give you the skill set necessary to play Giant Steps. Yeah, of course you have the potentiality that you brought your awareness to. You have the mindful aspect, but you've got to get into the blood, you've got to get into the material before you can play jazz. Now consider what would happen if you picked up a saxophone and you never read anything about how to play it. Yeah, you might be able to make some noise, but it's probably going to sound like shit. Once again, you're not playing jazz well. You are. You are. Actually, let me correct myself, you are playing jazz, but you're not playing it well because, yeah, you've got the body aspect down, you got the thing in your hands. You're applying emotion because you really want to sound good and you love what you're doing, but it's not enough because you're not taking the holistic perspective seriously. And you're not embracing the contemplative aspect of music. You're not learning your scales, you're not learning your modes. You're not accessing the unifying spirit of being part of a band and interacting with those people and feeling their spirit and giving your spirit to it and creating this giant mixing pool of sound, this beautiful expression of music that gives you access to the gods, gives you the ability to become a God yourself, just like John Coltrane, so that people in the future can listen to giant steps and it can be like a prayer when you hear that beautiful music. And how do you become like a God, which is in fact the ultimate goal of tantra and yoga. How do you do that? Through the holistic approach, through willingness to experiment, willingness to make mistakes, recognition of both order and chaos, recognition of both the contemplative state and the active state. When you can bring all of those elements together, you're playing jazz and you're playing it well. And so that's what we're doing. We're finding our great passion. A specific instrument, a specific type of music. Maybe we want to practice medicine. We want to be an actress or an actor, we want to be a dancer, we want to be a great trader, we want to be a great tech giant, we want to make films. Whatever is it, whatever it is that we want to do, there is a way to do it through tantra. And so now let's do that. Let's advance forward with great confidence in our ability to experience the highest highs and the lowest lows, the greatest victory and the greatest defeat, and recognize that our victories are not only victories and our defeats are not only defeats. Victory and defeat, it's just a pathway towards understanding and awareness. That's what we need, understanding and awareness.