# rtt lecture - Aghori Madmen of the Left-Hand

Gor, spelled G H o r, is a Sanskrit word that means terrible. And agor, spelled A G, H o R, it's another Sanskrit word that means beyond terrible. The Agor tradition of yoga is that which is beyond terrible. Now, there's so many meanings that can be applied to the concept of going beyond that which is terrible. There's a richness to this concept that expands the entire breadth of what may be perceived as the cosmos. And within that wide spectrum of potentiality of consciousness, we find the Aghori. The Aghoris are practitioners of a left hand path form of tantra yoga that may be traced back to the 4th century in India with the cult of the Kapalikas. Now, the Kapalikas are a sect now technically defunct, although there are still those who claim to practice the tradition, but they are a sect of non Puranic Shaivites. So Shaivism is the worship of Shiva. It is a form of yoga where Shiva is elevated to the supreme position within the cosmic order. So this would be contrasted with, for example, Vaiavism, where Vishnu is elevated to that position. Now, the positioning of Shiva in the cosmic order as it pertains to the Kipalikas and later the Aghoris is very important to understand because Shiva is transcendence. Shiva is the clear waters. And the role of Shiva within these traditions is to be a guiding force, to be a source of purity, of purification, of the great poisons that are consumed by all those who walk this path, this very dangerous, extreme path. Now, the Kapalikas are named because they are the bearers of skulls. Kapalika means skull man or skull bearer. And these practitioners of tantra were named skull bearers because much of their sadhana took place in cremation grounds. And in the cremation grounds, these Tantrica would collect the bones of the deceased and they would make jewelry and they would integrate the remains in dark occult rituals. And these rituals were very taboo and terrifying, but powerful, extremely powerful. And so those individuals who sought the most intense path to power, the path that offered the greatest potential for expanding one's awareness, expanding one's consciousness, they were attracted to this cult. Now, very little is recorded in regards to the actual practices, the detailed practices of the Coppolakas, but the lineage of the Coppolakas has been preserved within India. You have Puranic yoga philosophy or Puranic religion in the form of contemporary Hinduism, and then you have that which deviates from the Puranic tradition. And in this deviation we find the assertion of Individuation and a master morality that penetrates through all of the binding forces within the social order that may prevent one from reaching their ultimate expression of power. What are the Puranas? The Puranas are holy books that provide strict moral codes for the people to follow through discussions regarding the nature of the gods and their relationship to man. But the restrictive nature of these texts does not allow one to perceive the true depths of the dark corners of this world and the blinding light of everything that is beyond and everything that is present. And so it has always been a critical element of the Agor tradition to shun the social order, shun all those rules, those taboos, those dogmas that would bind one to a position of slavery or any sort of diminished power. Because it's power, total, raw, unrestricted power, that is what the Agor tradition provides. If you are willing to walk the path with absolute dedication, because, as I said, it is an incredibly dangerous path, it will expose you to your potential for the greatest benevolence as well as the greatest malevolence. But so long as you bring your awareness to the purifying force, so long as you pursue your dharma along this path, you will survive and you will be made much stronger for it. Now, the purifying force of Shiva within the non Puranic Tantric tradition has taken many forms. And the form of Shiva that is most prominent within the eigh tradition is Bhairava. Bhairava is the ferocious manifestation of Shiva. And within Viagra Yoga, according to rooted consciousness, we place Bhairava in the muladhara. But the foundational consciousness of Bhairava is the Sahasra, because he is a manifestation, an incarnation of Shiva. And so when you perceive the manifestation of the Muladhara within Bhairava, you must consider that at the base of this pyramid of conscious expression, we find spirit, we find this asura. And this influences the nature of the muladhara expression. So Bhairava is like the divine masculine, the urge towards order expressing itself on the furthest point from its root. Because divine masculine order is rooted in this ashura. And if you take it as far away from its home position as you possibly can, you reach the muladhara. And this is where you would find the manifestation of Bhairava. Now, just take a moment to consider what that means. It means that you're dragging the sun down into the depths of of darkness. You are forcefully bringing the light into the shadow. You are eclipsing the sun. And so if you are rooted in divine masculine order, but you embrace the greatest extreme of shakti. You can act in the most animalistic fashion, but still be far more than just a simple animal. And when you bring your awareness to Bhairava, that is what you access. The ability to be a beast and a God. And the Aghoris, they practice bhakti on Bhairava by taking on his essence. If you view the iconography associated with Bhairava, you will find this wild man in the forest with an unkempt beard and long dreadlocks, drinking blood or alcohol from a human skull. And this is the form that the Aghoris are assuming. But this form goes far beyond the physical presentation, because, as I said, the Agor tradition is all about accessing the fullest spectrum of consciousness. And we all exist somewhere within that spectrum. We have our own dharmic balance. And so there are Aghoris who wear the dreadlocks, they have the unkempt beard, they drink from the skull. But there are Aghoris who wear business suits, attend corporate meetings, they drink coffee from a mug. But within them is the same bestial nature that they have embraced alongside the purifying aspect of Shiva. And so the Agor tradition is not limited to the actual physical cremation grounds. It's not limited to those who wear the dreadlocks. It's not limited to those who cover their body in ash. Although these practices are powerful and are recommended for those who wish to experience their fullest potential, they're not necessary. Now, this circle that we belong to, we are practitioners of Tiagra Yoga, which is part of the lineage of the non Puranic Tantra, part of the lineage of the Kapalika. It is a form of the Agor tradition. And within this we practice the Left hand, but we also practice the Right Hand Path and the proper understanding of the Left Hand Path. And the Right Hand Path is found in reflection upon the Indian tradition where these paths originated. The Left Hand Path within the Indian tradition is known as Vamashara. Vamashara is a path in which you embrace all that is taboo. The borders of what is acceptable in the practice are dissolved. The only thing that matters in Vamashara is the pursuit of power. That which brings you power is good, and that which undermines your power is bad. That sounds terrible to the uninitiated because it seems to suggest that anything goes. But practitioners of Amishara who truly are capable of empowering the self recognize non duality. They don't confine themselves to ideas of good and evil. Those ideas are just further barriers from the ultimate truth. Whether that takes the form of oneness with God or cultivation of ultimate power within the self. We contrast this with Dakshinasara, which is the traditional right hand path within India. And within the right hand path, you have certain standards that need to be followed in order to achieve transcendence. Now, if ultimately your practice is directed towards the left hand, the standards that are applied on the ascending path, which is the right hand, differ from individual to individual. There are some who must apply the strictest code of asceticism in removing all poisons in order to reach transcendence. And there are those who benefit greatly from taking on as many poisons as possible in pursuit of transcendence. And once again, within the Agora tradition, we find the widest expression of this. Most of those who have heard of the Aghoris are familiar with the intense consumption of poison that occurs within the cremation grounds, things that would shock most people. But there are strains of the Agora tradition where these poisons are considered great hindrances to the advancement of power. And so they are shunned. They are not shunned out of any sense of taboo. They are shunned because they limit the ability of the Tantrika to advance in his practice. But for those who want to experience the quickest route to darkness, in dissolving the sun, in eating the sun, we have the Pan shamakara. These are the five IMs, the five great poisons. And they include madhya, which consists of drugs of all sorts. Mamsa, which is meat, the flesh of any living creature, including humans, matsya, fish, mudra, grain and methuna sex. Central to the Eighor tradition is the belief that all things are God. Now this belief is held during the first initiation. So the idea is that if you can perceive everything as being God, then you will lose all discrimination. There is no difference between the flesh of a cow and the flesh of a man. There is no difference between urine and water. All things are God in perception. But of course, this is a left hand tradition. So the idea is that if you are going to pursue power, you can't destroy yourself immediately. We exist between two points of dissolution. On one side we have shakti and the other side we have Shiva. Shakti is dissolution into individuation and Shiva is dissolution into unification. If you are walking the left hand path, ultimately, even if there's a detour onto the right hand path, you are going to walk a fine line between these two points of dissolution. And the goal is to reach transcendence without dissolving. Completely. And so if you're going to consume the five poisons, you cannot allow shakti to overtake you, because that's what those poisons are. Each of those poisons represents that which is poisonous to us in our present dimension of consciousness. And that which is poisonous to us in an immediate sense is of shakti. It is material. It is the self and all things surrounding the self, all differentiated things. And so we must protect ourselves from these poisons if we wish to preserve the self. Now, there are poisons of a divine, masculine nature too, but they are subtle poisons. And so when you are entering into the first initiation, your primary focus is going to be on overcoming the poisonous aspects of shakti, that which is immediately poisonous to you. We are all born into a state of unrefined shakti. In the Agor tradition, it is said that we are all born as a ghori. When you are a child, when you're a baby, you play with filthy. You show no discrimination. You show no fear. You have no fear of death because you have no concept of death. These things are introduced to you as you begin to experience the world, as you are taught to fear these things, as you are taught to see a difference between filth and cleanliness. So we are born a gory. But that doesn't mean that we are born powerful, because the condition that we exist within, upon birth is an unrefined condition, unrefined aspects of shakti. And so if you want to reach your fullest potential, you must begin to discriminate. Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending upon your perspective, the discrimination that you apply creates separation between you and God. And in fact, the greatest separation between the self and God is the individuated form. It is flesh and blood, which is an aspect of the muladhara. Your skin is a border. It's a protective border that keeps bacteria and other poisons, excuse me, poisons, from entering into your body. So it preserves the self. But simultaneously, it acts as a border to unification. It acts as a border to the realization of God consciousness. It acts as a barrier, a hindrance to achieving unification, oneness. So what must be done? Well, the border has to be dissolved. But of course, if you're dissolving that which protects you from the poisons of this earth, you are placing yourself in great danger. And this is why so many of those who become aghoris fail to reach their ultimate potential. Because just one bad decision can lead to such a great dissolution of physical form that you cannot possibly recover. And that is why the guru is so extremely important for the Agora tradition. And in fact, for any practice of real, effective yoga, real effective tantra, you need a guide. It can be done independently, and it has been done independently, but you're placing yourself in much greater danger when you do this. And if you have the option to be guided by someone who knows the nature of the poisons and knows how to avoid them, and knows how to purify them, and knows when it is appropriate to apply those poisons, if you can find a guru of that nature, then you should have a guru. Guru is very important in the Agora tradition, but so too is personal responsibility. Because when you remove all taboo, you're taking away the crutches, you're taking away the safety net. Everything is intensified. It's much more exciting when you can walk the tightrope without the net below you. Your blood pumps, your spirit manifests, the fire in your belly is increased. Your focus, your mental focus increases because you have to make sure that you don't fuck up. Nothing is going to save you. But because the experience is intensified, the benefits are intensified. If you have to apply increased mental focus, your mind is sharpened much faster than if you have safety measures in place that do your thinking for you. If you have to muster up courage in the belly in order to be able to act without those safety measures, then your fire burns stronger. If you have to build up your body physically so that it can handle the rigorous challenges of existing without aid, then your body will grow stronger, faster, and your spirit will erupt into unification in God consciousness with such a great intensity. Whenever you realize that everything was just your perception, your awareness, your willingness to unify all along. So this path is extremely powerful, but also extremely dangerous. Now let's talk about how the current, uh, tradition developed and give a deeper understanding of why certain practices are pursued by the Aghoris. So one of the primary deities, in fact the primary deity within the eigh tradition is Dattitreya. Dattitreya is a form of Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva combined into one being. He's often depicted as a three headed God. Now, Datitreya is a God of the left hand. And in iconography of Dattatreya, he is often shown participating in taboo practices like the consumption of flesh, the drinking of blood, sex practices, acts of violence, the consumption of alcohol, of different drugs. And the Aghori understand Dadatreya to be the ultimate form. Dattatreya is simultaneously oneness and differentiation, the full spectrum of experience. And we see this in the manifestation of Brahma as order, both in the natural sense and in the subtle sense. We have Shiva as the transcendent point and Vishnu as will. And if you combine all three of these things together, you are granted the fullest expression. This being possesses great divinity, but at the same time, he goes out amongst the filth, the refuse, the outcast, and exists within that space because all things, all things are divine in the Agora tradition. Now, according to the tradition of the Aghoris, Dattatreya initiated the first Aghori saints. And these saints were taught black magic. They were taught to utilize the taboo to practice vamashara in pursuit of power. And the founding saint of what is known as a Gore Yoga now was named Baba Kinaram. Baba Kinaram was so powerful that he was thought to be an incarnation of Shiva. He was born in India in 1601, and it is said that he lived to be roughly 169 years old. Very powerful saint. When he was traveling to visit Sivadas, Sivadas reported that Kinaram walked to the edge of the Ganges and the waters began to turn and boil and twist and explode up. And then when Kinaram placed his feet in the waters, they were calmed. He possessed great power as a child and continued to grow in power and understanding. And the depth of his understanding he included in his teachings which were recorded. Part of his teachings are included in a book called the Viveksar. Excuse me. The Viveksar is the foundational text of Igor Yoga, and it was written in the 17th century. So it's quite old, but still modern in comparison with other forms of Tantra or even if we want to go back as far as the Vedas. But within this text, he described a tradition that was rooted in the principle of free exploration. So the idea is that Eigh is not confined to the Indian gods. It's not confined to the Vedic pantheon. Eighor is applicable to everything. It is perennial. The idea is that you are going beyond what is terrible. You are. You are going beyond fear. You are going beyond discrimination. And that means that you can explore all paths openly. All roads are accessible to you because these many paths lead to one truth. And that really is a foundational principle within the Agore tradition. Due to this openness and exploration, Kinaram promoted very taboo practices. He embraced master morality, but his embrace of master morality was not in the form of an Apollonian order. He really embraced the Dionysian because he was willing to go out amongst the untouchables, the outcasts. In society, expose himself to all poisons so that he could have a deeper understanding of the nature of that which is divine. For most people, when they consider that which is divine, they're thinking of something like a beautiful symphony performed in a pristine opera house where everyone is dressed in their finest clothes. But Kinoram knew that beautiful expressions of divinity can be found in the slums, in the dive bars, out amongst the rogues. And if you want to taste all of the beauty that this life has to offer, you have to be willing to experience the full spectrum. You have to go to the opera house, but you also have to go to the cremation grounds. Now, there's another element to the willingness of Kinnaram to abandon ideas of caste in the formation of the Agor tradition. And that is the fact that when he was developing his practice, there was a grand Islamic invasion within India. Now, this invasion was very destructive to the traditions of the Indians. Aryanism was greatly threatened at this point, and Abrahamism became the rule of the day. Now, what occurs in a culture with a caste system that relies upon the Aryan spirit, the Aryan fire, in order to preserve its healthy foundation? The whole thing falls apart. If you inject Abrahamism into the social order, you replace Arianism, then the Brahmin are no longer Brahmans, the Kshatriyas are no longer Kshatriyas. You can't trust rank, you can't trust title. One day you have a priest who represents the Aryan tradition, and the next, his head has been cut off and he's been replaced by a man who is teaching you to prostrate yourself to Allah. That is a total dissolution of caste. That is Ragnarok. So what happens to the Brahmins who are displaced by this invasion of an alien culture, an alien religion? They become outcasts, they become the untouchables, the artists that were once celebrated for representing the essence of the gods in their creations, they're now seen as troublemakers. And so they're cast out into the street. And so you can no longer trust the social hierarchy. You can no longer trust outward appearance. Yes, that man might be wearing the robes of a holy man, but he's representing a bastard tradition from the desert that has nothing to do with. With the beautiful lifeblood of your ancestors. So it doesn't matter if he looks the part, it doesn't matter if he has wealth, if he claims divinity, he is the true untouchable. And the true Brahmins are men wearing rags wandering the streets, begging for food. So Kinaram trains His saints, his yoga saints. And they begin to travel all throughout India wearing rags, going to places of absolute filth, exposing themselves to the untouchables. And in the process, they find that there is a spark, a rebellious spark, a revolutionary fire that burns in the hearts of those who have been trampled upon by this invading force. Men and women who are willing to get their hands dirty, who have abandoned all pretense of civility. It's within this underground that the seeds are planted for a new order. A new order that has yet to rise in this world. But it is coming. It is coming because men like Kinaram took action to expose themselves to the necessary poisons, to make themselves strong enough to withstand invasion and infection. And so we have with Kinaram a grand tradition within Igor Yoga of social reform, social activism, preserving the foundation. Because you can cut the head off of the caste system, you can get rid of the priesthood, you can get rid of the warriors, you, you can get rid of the merchants, you can even get rid of the farmers. But one thing you can't get rid of is the criminal. Because he can weasel his way into every little crack and he's willing to do whatever it takes in order to preserve himself. And so it's in the heart of the criminal where the future of Arianism can be found. The rogue, the trickster, the devil and the Aghoris understand this. And so they embrace this condition of criminality, of extremes, of being willing to do whatever it takes in order to preserve their link to the gods, regardless of what is occurring within society. And this is why they are ostracized, this is why they are shunned. This is why the people, the common people come to the edge of the cremation grounds and they say, don't go in there, because in there you find demons, you find ghosts, you find monsters, you find Tantrika, you find Aghori. Don't go in there. If you go in there, you might be bitten, you might be poisoned. And so Hinaram and his disciples have given us this long standing tradition of practices that offer us a means of unleashing that beast within us, the God within us. One such practice, one such principle is as above, so below, which is found in the Indian tradition only within the non puranic practices, only within Tantra, only within real yoga. Because if you are submitting yourself to popular Hinduism, which is very moralistic and petty in the way that it represents the social order, then you're not going to be able to embrace that criminality. You're not going to find the beast and you're not going to find the God that is inside of you. So you have to be willing to recognize that God is above and God is below. God is the rain that falls on your head, and he is the beetle that you step on when you're walking through the dirty streets. God is everywhere. The divine is in nature. The divine is within the subtle order. The divine is here speaking with you, and you are divine in hearing. And the divine is outside of what we are experiencing right now. Everywhere we find divinity and the expression is of equal importance. That which is below is just as beautiful as that which is above. And in accepting this, you are asserting your autonomy, you are asserting your power. Because you are saying that I, as an individuated being in this form, I am of the same importance as the gods that reign outside of this dimension. But accepting this fact, you must also recognize that those who are below you are just as important, just as beautiful. Now, within this structure, we have varying degrees of dharmic expression, because the true source of power is being able to connect to your dharma. So if the beetle lives his dharma as a beetle, he is just as powerful as a man who lives his dharma as a man. He is just as beautiful in his expression. And in fact, the beetle who lives his dharma as a beetle pushing shit down the road is more beautiful than the man who fails to live his dharma. Those who act in Adharma are uglier than the beautiful noble insect that lives according to its dharma. But this can only be understood through the application of non discrimination. This is not a realization that is immediate. You have to experience this for yourself. You have to be willing to even consider the idea that a beetle can be more beautiful than a human being. That is an aspect of awareness that most people don't have access to. In fact, most people would consider it to be terrible. But we as a Gori, are beyond that which is terrible. The social ostracism that is experienced by the Aghori is a gift. Because if you can assume the place of the rogue, you gain access to cracks within the social order that allow you to do things that liberate you. To steal when given the opportunity to murder when given the opportunity to sleep in the gutter, when given the opportunity to not have to take orders from someone who is not interested in the advancement of your power, to be able to take time for yourself to develop your power. And that is what the Aghori do when they leave society, when they go to the cremation grounds. They strip all of their clothes off and cover their bodies in human ash. What are they doing? They are asserting their ferociousness. They are asserting the fact that they are not willing to be domesticated. Any order that is applied within their life is drawn from their individuated experience and expression of their autonomy and power. It is not granted to them from an outside source. They don't give a fuck what society thinks about them. And because of that, because they are willing to embrace this complete abandonment of any sort of idea of civility, they have total power to embrace what they need to embrace in order to achieve yoga. And so what do they do in the cremation grounds when they finally abandon any sort of social concern? Well, they destroy fear. If you're going to go beyond that which is terrible, you have to destroy fear. So you have to expose yourself to scary things. The cremation grounds. Within India, it's very common to have cremation grounds. These are large areas of land where pyres are built and bodies are thrown into flames, just taken in and thrown into flames. And cremation is very common. These are large grounds, open grounds, and these are terrifying places because the people of India know that spirits rest on these grounds, that wrathful deities walk on these grounds. And so if you're going to go into this area and sleep there and eat there and have sex there and live on these grounds, you have to be either completely fucking insane or you have to be ballsy as fuck. You have to have guts. You have to be willing to do things that other people wouldn't be willing to do. It's a test. Just being able to step foot on the cremation grounds is a test of your ability to succeed as a Yogin. If you can't even look at the cremation grounds, then don't even start to practice yoga, because the cremation grounds represent everything that is terrible within you. And you all have terrible things inside of you. And I have terrible things inside of me. Everything that exists has terrible things within it. Now, are those terrible things bad? Not necessarily, but they can be. They can be very bad. And what the Aghori do is they see how bad they can get. Because it's not just about destroying fear. Once you've destroyed fear, you can reach transcendence. But once you've reached transcendence and you come back down into your individuated form and you have reincarnated at the seat of will in the heart, in the Anahata, fear becomes a tool. Fear becomes A weapon that you can wield. And they wield this weapon very well. And it's a good thing that they do it too, because just like a rattlesnake will warn you of his presence, the Aghori will warn you not to fuck with shit that you're not ready to fuck with. This is a great service that they do to people because the kinds of magical practices that advanced agories are involved in would drive most people insane. And so you don't want to play around with it. The aghoris, they consume flesh. They partake in the poisons, but they don't just consume any flesh, they consume the flesh of humans. Cannibalism, it's a very common practice amongst the Aghoris. That meat that they take from a human body, that's the meat of God. A common practice is for an Aghori to sit in front of a burning body on a cremation pyre and watch the skull begin to build pressure. And then watch as the crown of the skull pops, explodes and the brain falls out from the skull and they scurry over to the brain, they pick it up and they eat it. This is an application of their will to recognize that all things are divine. But also, there's another meaning to this from a left hand perspective. If you're trying to become physically powerful, if you're trying to embrace shakti, and they do embrace shakti, you want to consume things that give you power. When you consume the deer, you gain the power of the deer. When you consume the rabbit, you gain the power of the rabbit, you gain the prana within that thing. It transforms your body. When you consume human flesh, you gain the power of man. Man is a powerful animal. And so if you're willing to eat the flesh of a human being, then you can gain the power that is offered by that flesh. Now, for the most part, Aghoris practice cannibalism on recently deceased bodies. But there's nothing stopping an agori from going out into the streets, kidnapping someone, murdering them, and eating them. Because these yogins don't recognize good and evil. They only recognize that which serves to grant them power. If there's someone who they can kidnap and eat to gain power, they might do it. Is that a dharmic action? Is that an action that will advance the dharma of most people? No, probably not. So rarely would it ever be appropriate to practice if you want to gain power. But it is a potentiality. All things are a potentiality within this tradition. Most commonly, when the Aghori wants to practice cannibalism. They will, as I said, wait for a body to burn. They'll eat the brain, eat the ajna, or they will steal bodies from parts of the cremation ground. They'll take bodies out of the river wherever they can get the bodies. The individuals who are responsible for keeping the cremation grounds are always watchful for those pesky Aghoris who are ready to steal a fresh corpse for whatever type of black magic they're ready to practice upon it. Now, when the Aghoris cover their bodies in the ash of the deceased, what they're doing is they are taking on a fearful appearance, but they're also reminding themselves of death, constantly reminding themselves of death. Death is a great fear for most people. And if you're practicing a sort of bhakti that allows you to face death directly, you'll do it by surrounding yourself with things that remind you of death. And so, of course, if you cover your entire body in human ashes, you're going to remind yourself of death consistently. And in developing your meditation, your kriya state, you can overcome that fear. Part of the practice of overcoming that fear is worship of Tarammal, who is a very important deity within the eigh tradition. In fact, all of the Mahavidyas, all of the tantric left hand manifestations of shakti, are important. Though the Aghoris bring their awareness to Shiva in the ascending path, they are not limited to worshiping Shiva. In fact, all gods become accessible to you on the Gori path because through a gore you are removing discrimination, so you are able to explore all things. Some things are not going to work for you, but other things will. And those things that do work for you, you should embrace. And it doesn't matter what society thinks about those things, unless of course, it is your dharma to care about society, which it is the dharma of some to do this. But for others, the social order is a great hindrance. And for almost all the social order is a great hindrance because the social order is controlled by forces that want to suppress Arianism. And the Aghori practice is radical Arianism, a radical reconnection with Arianism. Drug use Drug use is extremely common amongst the Aghoris, specifically cannabis. Cannabis is consumed in insane quantities. Sometimes an egori will roll a massive blunt and practice nadi shodhana, taking the smoke in through their nostrils. They will stay high all day in sacrament. Marijuana is the drug that is used most commonly in puja to Shiva because it is a drug that can induce contemplative states. It is a bridge to contemplation. But the Aghori also consume insane quantities of alcohol within the cremation grounds. From skull caps. They drink from human skulls. So they get high smoking a shitload of weed, and then they drink a shitload of alcohol. And they practice sadhana. In this way, they are exposing themselves to poisons. They are practicing ritual use of drugs in order to explore altered states of consciousness, in order to commune with the gods and also to have a good time. These things are not mutually exclusive. The Aghori will often go nude because they don't want to feel shame for their bodies. Shame is a barrier to knowing God, to knowing oneness. So if you can strip yourself of that shame by exposing your nude body to the world, then it is a worthwhile practice. Methuna sex rites are very common in the cremation grounds, and this can include public acts of sex orgies. Oftentimes, when sex practices are integrated by the aghoris in the cremation grounds, orgasm is reached. Semen retention is rarely practiced by the aghoris because they view amrita semen as a very powerful substance that is given in communion with the gods, consumed by male and female agories alike, along with shit and piss and blood. Because, like I said, all things are considered to be divine. Of course, these are the most extreme examples of the practice, but they're the most interesting, right? You want to be exposed to the extremes, or at least you want to be able to know that somebody's doing it. Because for some, their dharma is to reach the greatest points of extremity on both sides of the spectrum so that they can come back to everyone else and say, hey, guys, I made it. Guess what's on the other side? Some pretty cool shit. It's all part of playing your role in the cosmic symphony, deciding what point of extremity you need to land at. And if you're practicing a gore yoga, you can land at any point. Now I'm going to reveal something to you all that is a heavily occulted aspect of the gore tradition, And I'm going to discuss the meaning of this. And that is the shava sadhana. Sava sadhana is meditation upon the corpse. It is regarded to be the most dangerous practice that any yogin can involve themselves in, because you're dealing with the spirit of another human being directly, and you're dealing with this spirit in death, which opens certain doors that are very dangerous, sometimes deadly, to open. With the savasadhana, what occurs is the aghori finds a body this Body can be obtained in any way. They take the body to a lonely place, the forest, the battlefield, the cremation ground. And in isolation they meditate with the body. The fresher the corpse, the better. Oftentimes the aghori will chant mantra over the body. And then after a period of sleeping next to the body, meditating next to the body, the aghorje will sit in meditation on top of the body. Now, what is the purpose of this? Well, there's actually many potential applications of shava, sarasana or sadhana. Sorry, I'm mixing savasana with sadhana. Shava, sadhana. There are many potential applications. One is the one that really freaks people out and that is the capturing of a soul. It is possible through the proper techniques, the proper practices, the proper rights to take control of a human soul after it dies and command it some agories. This is what they are attempting to do. This can easily lead to madness. It's a very dangerous practice, should not be practiced by any initiate who has not yet completed the right hand path. And it should be approached with great caution for everyone else. The greater practice, well, not greater, but the more occulted practice is the understanding of immortality. Immortality is the ultimate goal of Shavasarhana. When you meditate upon the corpse, you're sitting on the corpse. What you are doing is you are contrasting your condition as a living being with this body. Simultaneously, you are recognizing that this body was alive recently. What is the difference between this form that is in death and the form that it had assumed just days before? What is the difference? How can you know the difference? Knowing the difference, being aware of the difference between the living form and the dying form, is the goal of this practice. By practicing meditation on the corpse, what you're doing is you are identifying the pranic signature of the corpse. Oftentimes the corpse that is selected for this practice is the corpse of a loved one. For example, the yogin's elderly mother or father passes away and they take the body and they meditate upon the body and they sit on the belly of the body and they observe this loved one in death. What are they doing? They're contrasting the energetic signature of their loved one when that person was living with this new form in death. Why would you do this? When you die, you will cross over into a new dimension of consciousness. And when you do this, there will be a question of whether or not the things that you are experiencing in this new dimension are illusion. How can you know that your loved one who has passed on before you, who you have met on the other side. How can you know that that's really them? Maybe it's just an illusion. There is a way you can know. To know the self, to know each aspect of consciousness, to understand the chakras, and to be able to recognize the consciousness of those things that are precious to you will allow you to confidently say that your unification with your loved one or loved ones in this new plane of existence is not an illusion. It is real. You have succeeded in achieving immortality with awareness. That awareness is great power. It is the greatest power. It is the ability to achieve godhood. And that is the goal of the Agor. To become a God.