# rtt lecture - Soma - Secret Nectar of Immortality

Soma. Soma is the drink of the gods. Some call it the nectar of the gods. It is an ancient drink, very ancient. The Soma cults predate the Vedic culture. Soma was spoken about, cults were formed surrounding Soma in the pre Indo Aryan times. And in the proto Indo Aryan culture, Soma was considered the central force of life, creativity and inspiration. And this drink was considered to be so important that when the Aryans invaded the Indus Valley and established the Vedic culture, they dedicated an entire section of the Rigveda to Soma, the Soma Mandala. And in the Soma Mandala we find beautiful hymns to Soma, Hymns that were formed over centuries prior to the Aryans coming to the Indus Valley, all in honor of this beautiful substance that we call Soma. Now those who have discovered the cult of Soma, who have read the myths surrounding these cults, they have searched far and wide for this sacred drink. They have looked to the mountains of Afghanistan where the original Soma cults were formed, searching for this mythical plant that was ground up and used to create Soma. And they found nothing. The Indians have tried to recreate Soma. They've experimented with many different herbs, many different substances, mushrooms, all types of things, but they have not been able to recreate Soma. And the reputation of Soma is such that this culture has influenced the development of contemporary psychedelic science and all forms of mysticism surrounding the psychedelic experience. Soma is at the core of these cults. And so it's important to understand what is Soma, what is it? Can we access it? Can we recreate it? Can we ingest it? And if we do ingest Soma, if we drink the nectar of the gods, what will happen to us? Well, tonight I'm going to reveal to you all the secrets of Soma. I am going to tell you exactly what Soma is, how you can drink it, and what the effects will be. Soma is a word that means distillation, extraction and sprinkling. Now if you understand what Soma is, the connection between the esoteric aspect of Soma and the etymological foundation of the word, that connection reveals quite a bit. Now, I'm not going to reveal the full significance the word right now, but keep that in mind that Soma means distill, extract, sprinkle. Now I will read from Indian myth, from the Vedas, describing the nature of Somalia and what it meant to the Aryans. We have drunk Soma and become immortal. We have attained the light the gods discovered. Now, what may Foeman's malice do to harm us. What, O immortal mortal man's deception? So we see here a description of a drink that has the power to bring immortality, and that is the basis of the Soma cult, the search for immortality. This is the fountain of youth, the Apple of Eden. And when you consume this nectar, this sacred drink, it sustains you forever. There is nothing your enemies can do to defeat you. You remain powerful for eternity so long as you have access to the Soma. And what does the Soma bring? It brings light. It is the secret of the gods. It is what gives the gods their spark of immortality. It is, in fact, the defining aspect of godhood. Soma, even the deceptions of mortal man mean nothing. It doesn't matter what anyone else is doing. It doesn't matter the conditions that have been placed upon you. If you have drunk from the elixir of Soma, you cannot be harmed. You will be preserved. Let me read now more from the Vedas describing Soma. He covers the naked and heals all who are sick. The blind man sees, the lame man steps forth. Let those who seek find what they seek. Let them receive the treasure. Let him find what was lost before. Let him push forward the man of truth. It doesn't matter what type of destitution you fall into. It doesn't matter what affliction injures you. If you have Soma, you have all. You have the full expression of potentiality and creativity given life, the breath of life, and the fire of the belly that expresses itself without restriction. They can cut off your hand, but they cannot take away your creative spark. They can cut off your head, they can kill you, but you will live again. You will be covered, you will be clothed, you will be fed, you will be nourished, and you will reach your strongest potential so long as you seek Soma. This is truth, truth for the man that seeks it, not some ultimate truth. Unless, of course, you recognize that ultimate truth is a matter of perception and it is granted by individuated experience. If you yourself are able to find Soma and drink it, you will experience truth, truth in the expression of the Aryan will to power. And this is very important to understand, because Soma is only accessible to the Aryans. Only those who are initiated into the Aryan tradition can ever drink Soma. It is inaccessible to those who do not walk the path of truth. What is the path of truth? Well, for the Aryan, and that's what the Veda is addressed to, the Aryan walks the path of individuated truth, which is Dharma. So if you can express Dharma. That is the key to accessing the formula for creating Soma. And once you have the formula, you can drink from your own fountain, you can create your own elixir and drink from it indefinitely. That is the treasure that is received. That is the thing that was once lost but is now found. Dharma, purpose, understanding, awareness of the nature of the soul. That is what is granted when you drink Soma, the most powerful drink, the most powerful potion. Soma in the Vedas is said to only grow in the mountains. And it is described. The physical presence of Soma in the mountains is described. It is a tall green plant with bright yellow hair. And when you take that bright yellow hair and the green stalk and you pound it, you pound it against a rock until you generate heat, and that heat generates excitement. And in performing this action, you create soma. That's it. That's the formula for soma right there in the Rigveda, in the Soma mandala. It's handed to us. And so many people, adventurers, magicians, scientists, psychologists, philosophers, they have been searching for this plant. They have searched mountain ranges across the globe, seeking this tall green stock with bright yellow hair. They haven't been able to find it. Why haven't they been able to find it? Remember, what is the key? What is the key to. To identifying and accessing Soma? It is the path of Aryan truth. And the path of Aryan truth is Dharma. So if you are not walking the path of Dharma, you have no chance of identifying and accessing Soma. No chance. And those who have sought after Soma, without Dharma, they found nothing. And I wouldn't expect them to find anything. It's written plainly in the Rig Veda what you need to do. But that's the problem. See, there are many people who are seeking a quick solution. They don't want to do the work. They don't want to express this will towards Dharma, this will to power. They don't even know that that's what they have to access. Because Dharma is now absent from the general consciousness, from public awareness. Because we exist in the Kali Yuga, we, or Dharma, is very difficult to access. It's something that you have to find in dark corners, in whispered places. And most people are going to seek a quick solution. So they want to find this plant, they want to grind it up, and they want to drink the potion without accessing the mountain. Because Soma exists not just on any mountain, but on a very specific mountain, one that is always just beyond the horizon of physical perception. Now, it is stated in The Rig Veda, that the moon is the cup from which the gods drink Soma. What does the moon represent? In the Aryan tradition, the moon is representative of the divine feminine, Shakti. And of course, we associate, in the solar cycle of Yagra Yoga, we associate the moon with the muladhara, the full moon. It is the physical world, the physical body. So what is the vessel that holds Soma? It is the blood. It is the body, the physical body, that is the vessel that you use to hold Soma. And so when the gods drink from the cup, they are drinking from their own body or the body of another. You. You are the vessel of Soma. So where do we find the ingredients for Soma? We find those ingredients on the mountain. What mountain? The mountain of consciousness. The spine. Mount Meru or Mount Olympus or Yggdrasil. We find on the mountain all of the ingredients that we need to create Soma. Now, this mountain is not purely physical. There is a conceptual aspect to this mountain. It exists just beyond the realm of the physical. So when we seek it out, we have to try our best to not be bogged down in the physical world. Like so many of those individuals who have sought out Soma without taking the dharmic path, they have not realized the necessity of looking beyond this realm, beyond this dimension, because Soma is not a purely physical substance. That's the secret. Soma is seen as always being beyond the horizon. And in the Rig Veda, it states that the Aryans went west. They sought to conquer distant lands because they were seeking ingredients for Soma. That's why they left. That's why they expanded out into Europe and into northern India and. And across the ocean. They were seeking the light. They were seeking the glorious nectar of the gods. And so they went west. They were chasing something. What were they chasing? Well, we know that Somalia, it exists on a mountain far beyond the horizon, the mountain that is partially the spine, the expression of consciousness in the physical world, but also so many other things. Because the spine of consciousness, though it exists within us, in our physical spine, it is expressed at every level. Every level of the cosmos grants us an expression of this spine. Mount Meru, Mount Olympus, all of the galaxies, all of the universes, all of the expressions of consciousness in varying dimensions, whether they be our dreams or something beyond our dreams, something below our physical body. All of these things belong on the mountain, the mountain that is beyond the horizon. And the horizon, what does it represent? It represents the limits of our perception. So if we can break beyond the limitations of our perception, those limitations that we are born with those limitations that are grounded in the blood, that are grounded in shakti. If we can break through that, we can find that holy mountain and climb it. And as we climb the mountain, we stumble across that tall green stalk, that proud, strong base that holds up this beautiful yellow fire. And we grasp that fire and we grind that stalk and we create that nectar and drink it. Soma is said to reside in the heavens. And it is said in the Aryan mythology that soma is brought down by an eagle, brought to the people, brought to the gods by an eagle. An eagle who risks his life to bring that beautiful drink to us. Prometheus, the torch bearer, the one who rebels against the father in order to take the drink that was once held only by the gods, selfishly controlled by the gods, he takes that drink and he grants man access to it. He tears that yellow fire from its stalk, grinds up the stock and brings it to us, to the vessel, to the body. What is the eagle? The eagle represents the Sahasra. It represents the realm of spirit. It represents Scorpio. It is the connecting point between the highest expression of the spirit and the lowest expression of the body, the physical body, the blood. It is Shiva bringing the essence down to the serpent Shakti. It is Prometheus bringing the spark of life down to man to give him access to godhood. And it's dangerous. It's a dangerous endeavor for the eagle. It's a dangerous endeavor for man to seek Soma because soma is guarded. I read here from the Vedas, observing all the forms of Soma. He stands on the vault of heaven together with Parjana and the daughters of the sun. The Gandharvas cherish Soma. The Gandharvas are the defenders of Soma. They are like the wrathful deities that prevent you from being able to access that sacred drink. And if you can overcome them, you can gain it and you can keep it. Because once you understand how to create soma, once you know the formula, once you grind that beautiful plant within, you have a never ending supply. But you have to find it first. You have to understand it first. And just knowing where to find the soma on the mountain, just knowing its essence is not enough. You can understand what it looks like, you can understand where to find it. But you yourself, you have to climb the mountain. If you don't find that holy mountain and climb it yourself, you will not drink that elixir. Even if someone who possesses the soma is able to grind it up in their own body and give it to you, you might have a taste of the essence of Soma, but you won't be able to keep it eternally. And that's the goal of the path of Dharma for the Aryan is to be able to drink Soma and keep it, keep it in the moon, keep it in the blood forever. Eternal youth, that is what we are seeking. Man must steal Soma from the gods. This is the key of the Aryan tradition. The gods are adversarial to man. We have on one side the gods and on the other side the giants. We have the Devas and the Asuras, the Aesir and the Jotun. Both sides want to destroy us, but if we gain access to the secret of their power, we can overcome them. And when we overcome them, we witness the twilight of the gods. This is what the gods fear. Man gaining access to immortality, man becoming God, the Ubermensch. Soma is the lifeblood of the Ubermensch. And when you gain access to Soma, you are able to become the superman and reign over the gods. But the real test is not to become a tyrant and reign over the gods permanently, but to become one of the gods. Become one of the gods. Because the gods themselves, they tend to the mountain, they tend to the plants, they grant us differentiation, awareness of Soma. If we are to destroy them and elevate ourselves above them, then they become mortals. They become antagonistic towards us. We become greedy. We keep the Soma to ourselves and we create the conditions of our own downfall. And this is part of the regenerative cycle. This is part of what keeps us youthful. Always seeking a new horizon, not being satisfied with decadent tyranny, not just sitting on our throne, looking down, doing nothing, but always seeking the next horizon and affirming the beauty of youth. This is the Nietzschean call to youth, to the golden lion's mane, to that beautiful yellow hair on the green stock, to the fire in the belly, the Manipura, the rising sun. That is Soma. That is the secret. Now, does that mean that there is no physical drink? Is it all just allegorical? The answer is no. It's not just allegorical. It is true that there is both physical drink and conceptual understanding. And these two things, when combined, create Soma. They feed the fire in the belly. You have to have both. You have to have the physical vessel and the physical experience. This is what is shown in the recipe for Soma. In the Soma mandala. The green stock is the heart. It is the Anahata willpower. You must express will. This is the grinding when you grind will against the stone. What are you doing? You are acting willfully in the physical world. You are asserting your position in physicality. The stone is the blood that you grind your willpower against. It is the sword that you carry. It is the shield that you carry. It is the enemy that you cut down. It is the castle that you build. It is the lover that you embrace, the brother that you carry. All of these things, this is applying the will to power within the physical world. And what is generated? When you apply your will in the physical world as an individuated being, you generate heat. And where do we generate heat in the body, in terms of consciousness and the chakras? We generate it in the belly, the fire in the belly. That is the light, the rising sun, the bright light that we gain when we drink Soma. Now, soma is not just a liquid soma. And here's where we apply the contemplative element. Soma is brought down from the spirit of things, the eagle. It's not enough to just act willfully in the physical world. Yes, you need to act willfully with physicality. But that physical action takes on new meaning when it is combined with the spirit and the mind. When you understand conceptually what it means to craft this drink and what it means to consume it, then every action that you take in the physical world gains new meaning. When you are able to draw down the spirit and purify yourself of the confusion that you are born into, the obsession with the physical. Without recognition of anything beyond the physical horizon, that's when you gain access to the other side of the mountain. Not just what exists physically inside of you, but what exists outside of you. And this is a transformative experience. And through this experience, all of the action that generates heat inside of your gut, it's not just a physical process. It now represents something much greater than that. It represents eternal youth. This is the Fountain of Youth. It exists both within you and outside of you. And we all have access to our own individuated expression of the fountain. We all search for our own holy grail. We all search for our own soma. And when we find it and we create it and we drink from it, we become gods. Because we gain access to the secret of the gods, we gain access to the secret of their immortality. Now, this is something that is actually understood by some modern yogis. Maharishi Mahesh, he understood as part of transcendental meditation, that you are to generate heat. Soma in the belly. TM is about generating this soma in the belly. And then you sacrifice it, you feed it to the gods. And through this process you gain access to the realm of the gods. This is recent. This was spoken of in the 1970s, 1980s, and transcendental meditation is still popular. But most people, even if they hear the words of the yogi, they're not going to heed those words, they're not going to understand because their perception has been poisoned by people who are trapped in non Aryan or outright anti Aryan matrices. Gopi Krishna wrote in the book Kundalini, the Evolutionary Energy in Man, he said, soma, no man drinks. He was talking about an internal inebriant, what he called a nerve juice that is produced by Kundalini. So he was stating, Gopi Krishna was stating that when you practice Kundalini, you find the mountain that is the mountain within and without. And on that mountain, in the communication between the serpent and the eagle, we find the recipe for Soma and we can reach this inebriation. And what is this inebriation? Well, Gopi Krishna recognizes it as a beautiful expression of youth. Gopi Krishna understood this. So why is it so difficult for someone like Terence McKenna to get this right? Terence McKenna in Food of the Gods, inspired at this point millions of people to embrace an absolutely ridiculous interpretation of, of the Rig Veda, Completely wrong. Instead of recognizing that Soma is something that is both within and without, that has a spiritual aspect, and this spiritual aspect feeds into the material world. No, he just said that it's probably magic mushrooms. That's it. And Soma being related to the cow, to the bull, because we have the connection between Dharma, which the cow is associated with Dharma being the path of truth that leads you to soma. No, Terence McKenna just says it's cow shit. It's cow shit that leads to the formation of these magic mushrooms. And that's it. That's all it is. So once you take those mushrooms, then you achieve the status of the Ubermensch. Now this is totally ridiculous. But what's so dangerous about this is that it's appealing to people who don't want to do any actual hard work. Because if you can just take a mushroom, if you can just take a pill, if you can just drop acid and then have this experience and gain the immortality of the gods, why would you ever do any work in the physical world? There's no need for the physical world. It just becomes totally illusory. And then you start to embrace stuff like radical Gnosticism. And like Terence McKenna, you might say, I'm not a Monotheist. I reject monotheism, but I'm a gnostic. Bullshit. Total bullshit. But this is the kind of shit that leads to all this confusion surrounding what is the nature of consciousness. Well, people at this point now believe that the gateway to the gods is, is dmt. Now, like I said, there is a physical aspect to Soma. You take the physical aspect, you combine it with the spiritual aspect. But Soma can literally be anything. Diet Sprite can be Soma. Why jump to DMT when you can drink Sprite and get the same experience with the right context? And the thing is, most of the people who are taking all these heavy psychedelics, they don't have the proper context for understanding the experience. So they definitely aren't finding Soma. They're not achieving immortality. They're not reaching the fountain of youth. In fact, it's the opposite. They are becoming the resigned old man. They are falling into the clear light and never coming back. Most of them are absorbed into Yahweh cults or they're absorbed into some other father cult, totally transcendent cult. They failed the initiatory test of the Aryan, which is to be able to affirm eternal youth, recognizing what is the nature of Soma. So don't make the same mistake that they have made. Find Soma, distill it, distill it, extract it, sprinkle it, sprinkle it, give it to others. Be a youthful expression, be a positive rising sun light to other people. Inspire them to also search, to go west beyond the horizon and find that sacred drink that will grant you immortality.