# rtt lecture - Varg Vikernes and the Maladjusted Manipura

So tonight we're going to talk about a man who has had a very, very strong influence on the course of paganism within our contemporary culture. And it's really interesting that he has had such an incredible impact because he's not a scholar, he doesn't belong to any religious organization, he doesn't belong to any occult lineage or anything like that. He's an artist. Specifically, he is a musician. And his name is. Is Varg Vikarnas. Kind of an unexpected figure to have such a major impact within the world in terms of his influence on the course of folk tradition and the way that many individuals perceive the elements of blood and spirit and their relationship to one another. But nonetheless, he has had a very strong impact. And so it is important that we take the time to examine his life and to consider what led to the development of his beliefs and what the implications of his beliefs are within paganism, within traditionalism, and within the way that individuals now relate to political systems and the prevailing spiritual order of the present Zeitgeist. Now, before I begin with a recounting of the life of Varg Vignus, I want to mention something. Varg is a very good example of. Of a man rooted in the Manipura who is trapped within the Vishuddhi. Now, we know that the Vishuddhi is the adversarial state to the Manipura, and these states of consciousness exist on a spectrum. So every individual who is rooted in the Manipura has a side of their consciousness that is found in the Vishudi, and they can tap into that. They can access it. Part of the process of yoga for those who have the ability to walk the path is to integrate the adversarial state in order to achieve a new level of power. Now, interestingly enough, most people will enter into their adversarial state when they are under significant stress or when they experience a traumatic event. And this is especially common for individuals who are rooted in the Manipura. Because we currently live in the civilizational age, the Vishuddhi, and therefore the prevailing order in terms of consciousness is of a Vishuddhi nature. So any individual who is rooted in the Manipura is adversarial by their nature to the prevailing age. And therefore it is very difficult for Manipura people to exist in their rooted state without being considered problematic. There is a tendency for society to try to force individuals who are rooted in the Manipura into their adversarial state. And this is what happened to Varg. And we're going to discover tonight in this Lecture how this happened to Varg and how this could happen to someone else and what the implications may be. Now one other point I need to mention is the fact that being forced into your adversarial state can be either a positive or a negative thing. It can be a positive thing when you're able to integrate it in a process of yoga. It's not necessary for an individual to be practicing within a formal system of yoga to be practicing yoga. You can be practicing yoga without even realizing it. And so through exploration of the adversarial state, individuals can inadvertently reach unification through yoga. But more often than not the impact is negative to be thrown into the adversarial state because it means that person is stuck in a place that is far away from their home with no way back. So let's take a look now at the life of Varg Vikarnas. Varg Vikarnas was born Christian Vicarnes on February 11, 1973. He in Bergen, Norway. Now when you think of Norway, when you think of Scandinavia, the first thing that comes to mind is probably it's a cold place and it's full of Vikings. The connection between Scandinavia and the Viking Age is very strong because the Viking Age was the last great expression of pagan imperialism that was seen within modernity. It was a very impressive display of the Aryan spirit and it had a lasting impact on the entire world. But the Norway of the 1970s and the Norway of today, quite different from the Viking age because the Viking spirit, which was fueled by the Germanic Aryan spirit and the Norse pantheon, gods like Odin, Thor, Freya, Baldr, Loki, these gods are very difficult to find now within Norway because Norway underwent a very intensive process of Christianization. And now the Norwegian people lack the Aryan spirit. In fact, the Norwegian people of today and of the time of Varg's childhood, these are very docile people. These are not conquerors, these are people who get conquered. And that's in fact what is happening now within Scandinavia. Essentially the Scandinavian people have lost a will towards self determination and they live at the behest of the global order. The United States is at a very strong influence in Scandinavia. NATO has had a very strong influence in Scandinavia. And the process of Americanization within Scandinavia and specifically within Norway has led to the embrace of nihilistic capitalism and atomization which is further distanced the Norwegian people from their ancestral gods. Now it's important to mention that not every Scandinavian, not every Norwegian supports this new order. For example, Varg Vigarnis mother was or is very racist. She holds extreme racialist ideas, which is not popular within Norway. Norway is a very progressive place. Norway is very supportive of being a safe haven for migrants and embracing this sort of globalization process. Now this creates a dichotomy within the culture because the people are separated from their gods, so they have no real access to the spirit. And of course, Abrahamic systems often operate on a Hegelian dialectic. So what you have is either total openness, zero connection to race, everything is about the process of globalization, or you have extreme vulgar racism. And that's basically where most people will end up. One of those two places. And of course there are false shades of grey. There are like the civic nationalists who would say, you know, I'm not a racist, I'm not a racist, but I just support strong borders and things like this. But ultimately what they're supporting is global capitalism. They're supporting the process of Americanization. And there is no real nuance to the politics. But of course, the extreme racialist position, that is not a popular position. This is sort of like the outsider position. Everyone is either a liberal in some sense or a racial nationalist. Now, Varg's father not a racial nationalist. And in fact, Varg claimed that when he was very young he was interested in race nationalism. And his father became very upset whenever he found a swastika flag in Varg's room and he tore it off the wall, which made Varg very upset. Now, I need to be very clear at this point that Varg Vikernes is an unreliable narrator. Very unreliable. There are many inconsistencies in the way that he depicts the course of his life versus facts of certain situations that can be confirmed outside of the narrative that Varg attempts to advance. So we need to be very clear from the beginning that Varg Vikernes has a problem with the truth quite often. So whether or not his father really ripped a swastika flag off of his wall or whether he even had a swastika flag on his wal when he was a young child, that's up for debate. But regardless, his father was not the kind of racial nationalist that his mother was. Interestingly enough, Varg's family was a middle class family. His mother held an office job working for an oil company and his father was an electronics engineer. From a very early age, Varg was interested in music. Specifically, he claimed to have been a great fan of classical music when he was a young child. Now this is up for debate because Varg likes to present himself as being the epitome of, of what a European man should be and in recent years, he's been very critical of the heavy metal music that he once loved, save for a few bands. And he's tried to present himself as being a man of culture and a lover of classical music. Well, it might very well be that Varg was blasting Wagner in his living room when he was five years old. I'm not sure if he was or not, but this is essentially what he claims that he was into Richard Wagner, Edvard Grieg, Tchaikovsky, especially Tchaikovsky as a child, and had an intense interest in this music. And he also, and this is much easier to believe, was a voracious reader of fantasy novels, absolutely obsessed with fantasy, specifically the works of J.R.R. tolkien. And Tolkien plays a very important role in Varg's life, as we'll see later. Now, something very interesting happened to Varg and his family that allowed him to see an aspect of the world which most Scandinavians would not have an opportunity to experience. And that is at the age of six, Varg's family moved to Baghdad, Iraq, because his father was hired by the Saddam Hussein government to work on infrastructure. Now, Saddam Hussein, when he came to power, one of his primary focus points was the revitalization of infrastructure within Iraq. And so, because there was a lack of effective engineers within Iraq at the time, most of the work was outsourced, and some engineers were brought into Iraq to live in the country and work on very important projects. So Varg's father was hired to act as an electrical engineer within Baghdad. And this had a massive impact on Varg, because imagine that you are this skinny, snow white, blonde Norwegian boy with blue eyes, six years old. All of your friends look very much like you. You're surrounded by the cold forests of Norway, and then all of a sudden you're in Baghdad, Iraq. That is a massive shift. And you've got to think about these regions of the globe as being dimensional. They carry their own consciousness. Norway is a very Satvik place. It's cold, it's full of ice and wind and water, and so it's very contemplative. And Baghdad is on the opposite side of the spectrum. It's hot, dry, earthy desert, and the people are very much of a tamas nature, Muladhara svadistana. So it's radically different. And there are certain experiences that Varg has while he is attending school within Baghdad that awaken this racial identity within him very strongly, specifically within Iraq. At that time, children in the public school system were subjected to very intensive corporal punishment. So children who were caught misbehaving would receive pretty intensive beatings. But Varg, being the white Norwegian son of an electric engineer, received none of these beatings. In fact, Varg received hardly any punishment at all while he was in school. And so imagine this six year old Norwegian child sitting in a room full of Iraqi children and he gets to do whatever he wants. In fact, he even brags about calling his teacher a monkey. Consistently, no punishment for this, but the first time that an Iraqi child talks back to the teacher, they're beaten with a stick. So this creates a very intensive feeling of natural superiority in Varg, because he can literally just get away with whatever he wants because he's white and because his parents came from Norway and have this special role they've been given by the Iraqi people, he can do anything and no one will touch him. And the exact opposite is occurring to his classmates. They're being beaten viciously. So he's living in a new dimension and he's like an alien in this dimension. He really is. He's like a space alien coming to this new world where he has no attachment and he's experiencing all these strange things. And it's informing him, it's informing his young mind, his young spirit, his young self. It's informing him about the difference between him and the others. He also was very perceptive of the perceived inefficiencies that he saw within Iraqi culture. For example, he noted that the Iraqi people, when they would have an issue with one of their vehicles, say something as simple as a flat tire or a busted headlight, they would just abandon the vehicle, buy another one. Very rarely would they work to repair their vehicles. And Varg could not understand this. This was insane to him. Now, of course, there are economic reasons as to why this would occur, because there was some strange things going on in Iraq at the time with getting access to equipment. And so there was not so much of an impetus for the people who were driving these vehicles to actually spend the time and money to repair them. But it's not like that in Europe, because European people, in order to survive within their environment, had to evolve the ability to plan ahead and utilize very scarce resources in order to prepare for harsh winters. And so there is this tendency for European people to be very industrious and very careful with the way they use resources. It's no coincidence, no mistake, that the conservation movement, in a formal sense, in a governmental sense, came out of Europe. And so Varg notices this difference. And he also notices other minor things, like, for example, the packs of wild dogs that would roam the Streets within Baghdad. Bergen, Norway, is as white bred, clean, safe Mr. Rogers neighborhood as you could possibly imagine. And so there are no packs of wild, ravenous dogs roaming the street in Bergen, Norway. And for this child to witness this, this would have a major impact. You know, he's. All of his classmates are being beaten with sticks, people are abandoning their vehicles on the side of the road, and there's packs of wild dogs roaming all over the place. So it's just. It's really strange. But he wasn't in Baghdad for long because shortly after his family moved to Iraq, his father finished the project that he was assigned to and the family moved back to Bergen. Now, by the time that Varg had returned to Bergen, he had developed this intense realization of race, of blood, and it was informed by this perceived superiority. And his classmates in Bergen fed into this because most of his classmates had this very intensive nationalistic fervor. And they would bully children who were not Norwegian. This was very common at that time. If a child, let's say, came to Bergen from South America and was in their class, they would bully that child relentlessly and they would do things like, for example, Varg has recounted the instances where he and his friends had contests to see who had the most Norwegian name. Now, whether or not this is true, I'm not certain, but it wouldn't surprise me because the thing is, children, when they exist in a very homogenous environment like that and then are introduced to a presence that is not part of what they're familiar with, it usually does cause that type of reaction, that type of nationalistic reaction. We have to remember that children are unrefined shakti. So they are born with a very intensive realization of blood consciousness. And they are very aware of physical differences between people. This is why a child will straight up point to a fat person in public and say, hey, mommy, look at the fat man. Because children have no filter in that way. And they are very interested in their physical environment intensely. So it's part of how they develop. It's part of what gives them their spirit to advance, to conquer things, to grow. And of course, this becomes refined over time and it is informed by the culture. So the culture within Norway being very much a globalization culture, the children who have this unrefined shakti, who have this awareness that they are Norwegian, they are Scandinavian, and they look a certain way and they have certain cultural aspects that are important to them, that they identify with as they grow older, suddenly they're told that that is wrong, that they should abandon it. Completely. It's part of that Hegelian dialectic that's formed. You either have this vulgar racism or you have no identification of race at all. You have no identification with folk tradition at all. Those are your two options. Now, of course, some of these children, most of them will go along with what the culture tells them, because most of them are culture bearers. But some of them will rebel and they search for frameworks of rebellion. And Varg found his framework of rebellion in two things, actually, three tabletop gaming like Dungeons and Dragons, which also includes all of his interest in fantasy and Tolkien inspired role playing games, nationalist politics, specifically embracing national socialism and heavy metal music. So at the age of 12, Varg discovered iron Maiden, the band Iron Maiden. And Iron Maiden had a massive impact on Varb. He became obsessed with this band. And from Iron Maiden, he began to explore many different forms of heavy metal music. He got really interested in extreme metal or the precursors to extreme metal. And so with this interest in extreme metal, Varg began to explore how he can create. Now, this is natural, very natural for someone rooted in the Manipura, because Manipura is the seat of expression, it is the seat of creativity, and it's very natural for individuals rooted in the Manipura to be performers. The archetype that I attach to the Manipura in terms of Western magic tradition is the jester. So there is this clowning element as well, and there's this chaotic element to individuals in the Manipura, this fiery element. After all, the Manipura is the seat of inner fire. And we're going to see how Var. Excuse me, relates to fire very intensely in just a moment. But Varg wasn't just interested in music, as I said, he had these other interests and the role playing interest and the political interest started to merge together. And so from a very young age, he began to collect weapons. He would collect weapons with his friends. He had an extensive rifle collection. And you have to remember that within Norway, there are all of these old military sites that have old relics From World War II in the forest all around Norway. So Varg and his friends would rummage through these sites and they would find these old relics and they would, you know, they would put on their. Their helmets and they would put on their camouflage and they would dress up like soldiers and they'd play soldier out in the forest. But it wasn't just playing soldier, because Varg had this intense, intense hatred for Norwegian culture as it existed in the contemporary culture. He had an intense love for Norwegian folk culture, the old culture of Norway, the culture of the Vikings. But he despised the new capitalist culture within Norway. And so from a young age, Varg developed this idea that he wanted to die in battle as a member of the Waffen ss. That was his dream. And so he would play soldier in preparation for war because he believed fully that all of these things that surround him, this capitalist superstructure, the Christian church, all of this would come crumbling down someday in a massive catastrophe, and he would be ready. He and his friends would be ready, by the way, at this time. Varg was also obsessed with the film Red Dawn. And if you haven't seen Red dawn, it's about essentially a Soviet Communist takeover. The United States and a bunch of high school students in this mountain town resist the Communist takeover through guerrilla warfare. So this was sort of like Varg's fantasies. He is in Red dawn, and he's going to protect Norway from the Communist hordes that will be invading someday. And very early on, Varg became interested in direct action. Specifically, he recounts a story of the McDonald's, the new McDonald's store coming to Bergen. And all these people in the community are so excited that McDonald's is coming to Bergen. Finally. It's getting. It's a big party. We're all going to go to McDonald's as soon as it opens. We're going to line up, we're going to get our Big Mac. But what did Varg do? No, he wasn't excited for this. Instead, he and his friends found a sniper nest, and with their rifles, they shot out the windows of the new McDonald's. So you can see, Varg has this propensity for very intense, impulsive action, which is another common attribute of the manipura, that impulsive aggression. The manipura is associated with the ram, and so rams and goats. If you've ever been in a stall with goats, when you're feeding the goats, they don't even know you're there, really. They're pushing each other out of the way. They're trying to get the. The hay out of your hands. You get it into the stall and immediately they start ramming into each other because they have to have the food. It's their food. They've got to be there first. They don't line up in careful order. They don't share their space. No, they fight immediately to get what they want. And this intense aggression towards an object of desire, this is something that is exhibited very early on by Varg and continues through his teenage years. And in fact, when Varg was graduating from high school, he was asked by the faculty. What do you want to be? He had to. He had to define what career he would like to have so that they could aid him in determining, you know, whether he could go to college or whatever he could do to enter into this career. And Varg said that he wants to be dictator of Norway. That's what he said. So that tells you where his aspirations were at that time. Now, by the age of 14, Varg started playing guitar. He started creating his own music, and he. He formed a band called Uruk Hai. Uruk Hai, which is taken from the Lord of the Rings. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings refers to this genetically modified Orc creature. And Uruk Hai was a very primitive project, just dipping his toes into music, heavy metal, of course, because that's what he was obsessed with at the time. And then he joins a band called old funeral in 1990 at the age of 17. So old funeral is part of this burgeoning Norwegian black metal scene. Now, the Norwegian black metal scene is a very unique and interesting expression of creativity that developed in a manner very reflective of the nature of the environment surrounding the music. Norwegian black metal, which is sometimes called second wave black metal, is a genre of music that is defined by its harshness, its coldness. There's this vicious aspect to it. The. The vocals are like a scream, like. Like a demonic howl. Not like death metal, which is very guttural, but more in the. In the throat. Very shrieking. Yes, exactly. Very good, my friend. Thank you for the demonstration. That was good. Damn. And I love black metal very much, especially Norwegian black metal, because Norwegian black metal at that time was highly creative, and all of the bands had their own take on this general sound, which was sometimes referred to as Necrosound. And the idea behind Necrosound is the music is supposed to be impenetrable. It's supposed to be elitist. The music is supposed to be standoffish and very inaccessible. So the idea is that you make the music sound as harsh and evil as you possibly can, as a test, as an esoteric test. And basically only the strong will be able to access the music. That's the idea. Only those who can resonate with the cold darkness of the forests of Scandinavia will be able to enjoy this music. That's the idea. And this is running counter to the death metal scene both within the United States and within Europe. When the death metal scene began, it was very scary to people. The music was very intense and experimental, but it became formulaic very quickly, and the bands started to focus on creating music that was sort of just like fun and more accessible. Now we say accessible, but not really. I mean, you know, Cannibal Corpse is not going to be in the top 40, but. But black metal is something totally different. Black metal is a step beyond the Norwegian black metal step beyond death metal, because it is so cold and intense in its expression that it really is like the final test at that time, at least for extreme metal. And there's this thing within metal music where it's like this contest, almost like an arms race of who can be the most extreme, who can be the most elitist in the expression. And at that time, the Norwegian black metal scene definitely, definitely held the crown. So the whole Norwegian black metal scene was centered around a band called Mayhem. And Mayhem was led by a man who called himself Euronymous. Now, Euronymous was a really interesting figure. He was rooted in the Svadhistana. And like any good Svada Stana magician, he knew how to utilize image in order to gain power. And so he created this whole Norwegian black metal scene around a specific image, which included things like the corpse paint, which would be the white paint on the face with the black makeup looking like a corpse, the black leather jackets, the black and white sort of primitive album covers, all of these things. And he created an inner circle, sort of like a fucked up, satanic Andy Warhol's factory based in Norway. And he surrounded himself with all of these figures within the black metal scene, all these musicians. And he created a record label called Deathlike Silence Productions. Also he started a record shop called Helveta, which is. It means hell. And this record shop is very interesting. Once again, Euronymous, a Svadostana magician, perfectly curating this record store, painting it in all black, lighting the record store with candles, which is hilarious because you can barely see in there, and people are stumbling around trying to see the album covers and shit. But no, it's just candlelight only. And the whole thing has, you know, medieval weapons on the wall and chains and there's a dungeon for worshiping demons. So obviously he's creating this really incredible thing around his band and his image, and he's creating this record label. But an interesting thing about Euronymous is that for all of the intensity that he projects and he projected some really intense, extreme things, he himself was actually very soft. He was. He was basically all show. Now, when I say that, I don't mean that it's not a legitimate expression because the image he creates is his essence, that is him. But what he did not reveal to the Public, because he's a crocodile in the Svada Stana. He has his head above the water and that's what he wants everyone to see. But what he didn't reveal to the public was the fact that he was very sensitive and very soft, and he wasn't really inclined to engage in the types of activities that he was promoting. And he was promoting some very intense things. Like, for example, it's hilarious, but Euronymous called himself a Stalinist. He said that he supported Soviet communism not because he agreed with communism, but because it caused the most suffering in the world. And so he wanted to support that. He liked the idea of people suffering under a totalitarian regime. He was very elitist. And he would say things like, you know, oh, we want people to do more drugs because we want people to have more overdoses, because it's funny, because we want these people to die. And he would put little stickers on his albums that would say, just say yes. And encouraging people to do drugs, because at the time that he did this, record labels were putting Just say no stickers on their albums to prevent drug use. But Euronymous had this idea that it would be extreme if he would encourage people to be drug addicts, because to him, that's advancing this idea of social Darwinism and removing these people from the population. Now, like I said, this is a pose from him. He doesn't really hold these beliefs with this intensity. He might obviously have some intense views, but not to this degree. But he's utilizing this Svadhistana magic in order to create controversy around the black metal scene. And he was very successful, very successful. And part of his success, a big part of his success, was his partnership with Varg Vikarnas. After leaving Old Funeral, Varg met Euronymous and began spending a lot of time in Helvetta in the record shop. And during this time he decided to form his own band, which would be his independent project, his band entirely, no, no other members. And he called this band Burzum. Burzum formed in 1992, and like I said, it's a solo project, which is actually quite common within black metal, because black metal tends to have this elitist aspect, this satanic aspect, where people create records that are a pure expression of their individuated ego and they don't share the stage with anyone. And so even though he had this band, Burzum, he presented it as a band and he took the stage name Count Grishnak, which, by the way, is another orc name from the Lord of the Rings. And Burzum itself is a word in the black speech in the Lord of the Rings, which means darkness. And so all of these influences go into this new project. And Varg releases his first Blood Burzum album, Self Titled Album, in March of 1992 on Euronymous Deathlike Silence record label. Now I should mention that this record was funded through about a €1,000 loan from Varg's mother. By the time this record was released, Varg had very little contact with his father. His father had divorced his mother. Varg had very little contact with him, but he remained in close contact with his mother. And his mother was actually very supportive of his endeavors. Like I said, he received this loan from his mother, which was utilized to produce this record. Because Euronymous, even though he was very good at creating an image, creating a scene, he was shit with money, really bad with money. And because of this he ran into some big problems, which we're about to talk about. But the whole black metal scene, especially since it centered around Euronymous and there wasn't a lot of money involved in the scene, it really relied heavily on a do it yourself sort of punk rock mentality. Everything was self funded. People put a lot of their own work into album art and promoting records and setting up tours and things like that. And during this time it fostered this underground community that was very close knit. And a lot of this community incorporated similar things, like for example, the tabletop gaming element which is sort of surrounding Varg now. Varg states that, you know, he was the only one really interested in the tabletop games and fantasy literature and things like that. But this isn't true. There was a deep interest in those elements and you could see it in the music too. The influence of tabletop games and fantasy literature within the lyrics, within the imagery of black metal. And then the wearing of armor, the carrying of weapons, these are all common themes. And it's funny because when Varg traveled to England, he was wearing his armor. He was wearing his armor, he wore it through the airport and everything, which caused a big issue. And the Earache record, people were really impressed by this. He showed up in chainmail armor and they were like, yeah, this is exactly what we want. They were really excited to have Burzum. Now, if Burzum was signed by Earache Records, this would have been a big financial boon for Varg because they actually had a budget. It wasn't so much of a DIY operation Ear Achad, successful bans in the heavy metal scene. And they had the money to put into a big production for Varg. But Varg was very vocal about his political ideas at the time. He was an outright open National Socialist. And this was not a problem for the executives at Earache, but it was a problem for some of the bands on the label, specifically Napalm Depp. Napalm Death blocked the signing of Burzum. So they basically said, because Napalm Death had a lot of pull, very big ban on the record label. They basically said, if you sign Varg, we're going to leave. And so Varg did not get signed to Eric, and instead he went back to Norway and back to his financial problems because he was not making a lot of money. Even though he's a very prominent member of the black metal scene, the scene was still quite small. So something had to be done about this. There had to be some kind of answer to this problem. Now, this is where things get really complicated and where we have to give kind of two sides to the story. Because, like I said in the beginning, Varg is a very unreliable narrator, and we can't really take his word for his motivations. We have to take everything he says with a grain of salt. But at this time, when the scene was starting to grow, plots began to develop, plots against Christianity in Norway. And these plots may or may not have also been informed by the need to generate more attention for the scene in order to solve a lot of the financial issues that Euronymous was facing and Varg was facing and so many other people were facing within the scene. But before we get to that, I want to go way back in time to give us a little bit more context about Christianity within Scandinavian society. So the Viking Age. The Viking Age began as a reaction. Most people, when they think about the Viking Age, they think about these bloodthirsty Scandinavians who go across the ocean in their dragon ships without any, for no reason other than to just pillage. And. And they see this as, like, this just mindless display of violence. But actually, the Viking Age is far more complex than that. So Charlemagne, the great King Charlemagne, despised European paganism. It was the goal of Charlemagne to uproot and destroy all threads of paganism throughout the European world. And so Charlemagne launched a campaign of very intensive violence, of genocide against European pagans. Now, the stronghold of European paganism during the reign of Charlemagne was the North. The north held on to their pagan beliefs much longer than the rest of Europe. And all throughout the north, all throughout Scandinavia and northern Europe, you had something called the Irminsul and the Irminsul were pillars to the gods. These were sacred trees. And these trees were of incredible importance to the Northern Europeans. These trees represented the root growing to the crown, expressing an undying connection to the gods, to the ancestors, to the honorable dead. They're a representation of Kundalini. The spine is the tree Yggdrasil. We have the roots of the tree at the Muladhara and we have the canopy at the Sahasra. And all of these things in unification give us a link to the beauty of Aryan culture which was strong within the north at that time. But Charlemagne was a Christian and he wanted to see paganism destroyed, destroy the infidel. And so Charlemagne ordered the cutting down of the Irminsuls and specifically the cutting down of Jormunur, which was maybe the greatest of the sacred trees. And on top of the felled tree was built a church in the year of 783. And this was common, this was a very common practice. When the Christians would come into the north and they would cut down a sacred tree, they would desecrate the land, and then they would build a church, a Christian church on top of the sacred ground as a way to pacify the pagan spirit within the. The Norseman. And during this time, Christian missionaries began to enter Scandinavia very heavily. Specifically, the missionaries that came to Norway came from Lindisfarne in Northumberland. And this becomes very significant because if you are a proud Scandinavian pagan and your sacred trees are being cut to the ground and your connection to your ancestors, your connection to your dead children, your connection to your gods are being cut off by these alien invaders from a distant land who bring their desert religion to you that has nothing to do with your surroundings, has nothing to do with your beautiful forests, has nothing to do with your ice and your snow and your wind and all the things that you find to be beautiful. They destroy everything and they raise their church. What do you do? Do you just take it lying down? Fuck, no. You fight back. And that's exactly what they did. And that is the birth of the Viking age. So in 793, some historians say June 8, some say June 9. I recognize June 6 as the date for the raid of Lindisfarne. And the raid of Lindisfarne consisted of Norwegian Vikings going to the Lindisfarne monastery and razing it, burning it to the ground, slaughtering the monks, spreading their blood across the land and sending a message, sending a message to the Christian world that they would not be conquered. And that is the birth of the Viking Age. And so we see this retaliatory spirit, this rebellious spirit coming out of the north. The raising of the hammer of Thor, connecting with the blood of Odin, spreading across the land and bringing paganism back to Europe. Now, unfortunately, this last gasp of the pagan spirit within the old world failed to achieve its total revolution. And Scandinavia eventually did fall to Christianity around the 12th century. So let's fast forward now back to the Norwegian black metal scene. June 6, 1992, the date of the Viking raid on Lindisfarne D Day as well, we have the burning to the ground of the Fantoft Stave Church, Norway. This church was a very old church that was built on top of a pagan sacred site, like most of the churches that were raised in that area. And it was selected as a target by a member of the Norwegian black metal scene. And it's most likely that Varg Vikernes was the one who burned this church to the ground. Now, this started a wave of church burnings throughout Norway. Many, many churches were burned. And it's most likely that Varg Vicarnes was responsible for all of these burnings, except for maybe one. Now, he will not directly lay claim to these church burnings, but he is not afraid to hint at the fact that he's responsible to these church burnings. And he has supported these church burnings and he has said that this should continue. And so what was the reasoning behind the church burnings? Well, Varg now, when interviewed about the church burnings, claims that this was a message. This was a message that was sent to the Norwegian public stating that we do not agree with the conditions that surround us. We do not like McDonald's in Bergen. We do not like Christian churches in Bergen. We do not want to be Americanized. We want to have our old gods. We want to see the replanting of sacred trees. We want to redevelop our connection to Thor and Odin and Freya. That was one possible reason as to why the churches were burned to the ground. Another possible reason is because Varg and Euronymous were absolutely desperate for media attention and they needed to do something shocking in order to increase the marketability of their music. Because the entire Norwegian black metal scene, in terms of its marketing potential, operated solely on extremity and the idea of appearing outlandish and dangerous. Now, which of these motivations is the correct one, is the true one? I'll leave that for you to decide. Perhaps it's a bit of both, but one element of either marketing or terroristic political action that Varg engaged in which started a lot of his legal troubles right after the church burning was the scheduling of an interview with one of the biggest newspapers in Norway. And when he scheduled this interview, he tried to remain anonymous, which is hilarious, because in typical, unrefined Manipura fashion, he fumbled the entire thing and clearly outed himself immediately. Like, for example, when the interviewers were coming to meet with him, he threatened them. He said, if you call the police, I will kill you. And then when they were interviewing Varg, he didn't wear a mask or anything like that. He's just sitting in the room with them. And in fact, he. He allowed them to take his picture for the news story. And during the interview, he bragged about the church burnings. And he said that he engaged in these church burnings in order to spread fear and devilry. And he also said that the attacks would continue. Now, it's interesting that he mentioned spreading of fear and devilry, because Varg now claims that he was never Satanist, that he was always just operating from a position of Norse paganism, specifically Odinism. But we see that Varg makes explicit references to Satanism at this time, and he makes references to devilry and acting in a Satanic fashion. So who's to say? Maybe Varg now feels like he can present himself in a better light if he is an Odinist. People will listen to him if he's an Odinist, as opposed to a Satanist. But he clearly was involved in some kind of Satanism at the time. And Satanism in various forms was a very important part of the Norwegian black metal scene. So it turns out that this story was published on the front page of the newspaper. And of course, the interviewers immediately called the police after interviewing Varg, and he was arrested before the story even went to print. Now, while he was in prison, he kind of played the tough guy, and he said, you know, these Norwegian prisons, they're too. They're too comfortable. You know, you should throw me in a real dungeon. You should. You should beat me. You know, this is like a hotel. And really, he's not wrong. The Norwegian prisons are like a hotel. They're very soft places. And we'll talk about that a bit more later. But at the time that Varg was arrested, they didn't have much evidence to really convict him, and so he was released. Now, after his release, Euronymous shut down the Helveta record store. And this really pissed Vargov because he had done this. He had done this interview partially, and he admits to this for the financial reason. For promoting the black metal scene. And how is he going to promote his records, which he had released multiple records by now? How is he going to promote his records and sell his records if the main record store that keeps his stock is shut down? Well, Euronymous was not wanting to reopen the shop because things got too hot for him. You see, he wants to be seen as evil. He wants to be seen as this great leader. In fact, he had this black metal mafia that he called it this inner circle of evil Satanists. But of course, it's all a show, it's all theatrics. And when things get too hot, when he has this police presence and he's got investigators asking him about all these church burnings and murders that are beginning to happen as well, he is now in a position where he's got to make a decision. Is he going to expose himself to all this controversy or is he going to take a step back? Well, the discerning element of the Svadhistanic consciousness that he possessed led him to take a step back and start to rethink the way he's approaching things. Because, after all, you cannot be a successful black metal musician if you are behind bars, even though Varg does attempt that in the future. But this creates further disconnect between Euronymous and Varg. And in fact, at this time, Euronymous was not very popular with many people in the black metal scene, largely as a result of the suicide of the vocalist of Mayhem. The vocalist, his name was Dead, he called himself. And Dead had a lot of emotional issues. He was a very broken young man, and he committed suicide by shooting himself in the head with a shotgun. Now, there are some crazy stories surrounding the suicide of Dead. Some claim that Euronymous collected bone fragments from the skull of Dead and made necklaces out of the bone fragments and sent them to members of his inner circle. Some there's stories about him eating the brain of Dead. One thing he did do is take pictures, take very explicit pictures of the Dead body. And then he used one of those photographs for the album cover of a Mayhem live album called dawn of the Blackhearts. And this was a very controversial decision because a lot of people really liked Dead, and he was good friends with a lot of members of the Norwegian black metal scene. So when Euronymous did this, that put a target on his back. A lot of people didn't like him anymore. So he's starting to lose control of his scene and he's not really knowing what to do. And there's all of these rumors flying around. And one rumor that started circulating was the rumor that Euronymous planned to kidnap Varg, tie him to a tree and film a snuff video. And a snuff video is like a video of a. A real murder or some violent act like that. So basically the idea was that Euronymous was going to take Varg into the woods and, and kill him and film it and then maybe sell the video or use it to promote the black metal scene. Things were getting really, really out of hand, obviously, in the Norwegian black metal scene at that time. And so you have this rumor. Get back to Varg. Now, Varg already is very angry with Euronymous because Euronymous owes him a lot of money for records. And Varg needs the money. He's in a bad financial condition. And so Euronymous wants Varg to sign a new deal on the record label. And Varg is not inclined to do that. So this is where things get really muddy because we have a lot of conflicting stories. Varg claims that he travels to see Euronymous. He travels with an acquaintance to see Euronymous. And when he gets there, he's just going to take this contract and shove it in Uranus's face and say, you, I'm not going to sign this. You know, you can kiss my ass. And then he's going to leave. But Varg claims that when he opens the door, when Euronymous opens the door and sees Varg at the door, Euronymous panics and he runs to the kitchen to grab a knife. Now, Varg, hearing these rumors about this supposed snuff film, which we know, we don't know if Euronymous actually was telling people that he was going to film a snuff film of Varg. This is just a rumor. But Varg, knowing of this rumor, decides to chase after Euronymous and prevent him from getting the knife. And what ends up happening, according to Varg, is a fight where Varg stabs Euronymous. Euronymous runs away, runs past Varg's acquaintance, sees him, thinks that he's going to be teamed up on by these two men, and decides to fight and runs back and attacks Varg. And Varg, now acting in what he says is self defense, continues to attack Euronymous. Euronymous falls down the stairs, falls into some glass. Then Varg finishes him off by shoving a knife through his skull into his brain, killing him. That's Varg's story. Now, the police report is a little bit different. The police Report states that on August 10, 1993, Varg went to Euronymous home with the premeditated goal of committing murder. And the body of Euronymous, when it is found, it has 23 cut wounds. Two to the head, five to the neck and 16 to the back. Now the police state that these are stab wounds inflicted by Vargas. However, Varg says that no, he did not stab him that many times. What happened was Euronymous fell into some glass and that's why he had so many cut wounds on his body. We don't know what really happened. All we know is that Euronymous was murdered by Vard. And for this Varg is quickly arrested and he goes to trial. And he is sentenced to the maximum number of years in norway, which is 21 years in prison. He's sentenced in May of 1994 for the murder of Euronymous, as well as a number of church burnings and possession of 150kg explosives which he had kept in his home. The police say that Varg had planned to bomb a local clubhouse of leftists of communists and leftists in the area. But Varg claims that he was keeping all of these explosives for the day that World War three erupted and he could then defend Norway. So once again we just have this unreliable narrator and we don't know the answer. I will give you my opinion. I believe that what happened was Varg got very angry. He went to confront Euronymous. They got into a shouting match, maybe they pushed each other. Varg lost his fucking mind and stabbed Euronymous to death. Varg is a very impulsive person. Very fiery, Very impulsive and aggressive. And so you could see how in a heated situation like that, when he already has this idea in his mind that Euronymous is going to take him to the woods and film this, this torture and murder. And then you've got the stories surrounding Euronymous, like eating the brains of dead and all of these things. You know that it's very easy for someone who is that aggressive, who is that fiery, to lose themselves, to not be in an introspective state, to be in an active state and to fight, to act like a goat to ram. And I believe that's what happened. Now, that's just my opinion. Obviously I don't know exactly what happened, but I do know that at this time Varg was very reckless. He was reckless in the way that he dealt with the newspapers, threatening to kill the interviewers, not doing a good job of hiding his identity, not doing a good job of Hiding his involvement in the church burnings, bragging about the church burnings, not doing a good job of hiding 150kg of explosives. So clearly. And also on top of all that, he was very vocal about his National Socialist politics. And at the time, it's very interesting, and this is important for our later discussion, he would openly discuss the fact that he would like to see the genocide of all other races on earth. And he wanted to establish a white world order. So we're talking about someone who is prepared to do violence, Very interested in violence, very aggressive, very reckless. So it's not surprising to me that he would kill someone like Euronymous. Especially since Euronymous had this joking affiliation with communism. And there are rumors that Euronymous may have been a homosexual as well. And Varg is very against homosexuality, violently so. So no surprise if he did do something like that. So Varg goes to prison. Varg enters the Norwegian prison system in 1994, interestingly enough, right after he goes to prison. And there's this famous shot of him, by the way, when he's convicted, where he just looks at the camera and he smiles. He just little smile like that. And this is a very famous shot. It's like later on, Varg claimed that he did this because he was smiling at death, or it was like a heroic gesture, like what you would see from a Viking who was about to die on the battlefield. But it could have just been that he was completely insane, or it could have been that he wanted attention, that he was in this mode of deriving attention from all of these extreme acts. Who knows? It could have been any one of those things. But anyway, he's sent to the Norwegian prison system for 21 years, the maximum sentence. This is not like prison in the United States. Prison in the United States is rough. It is fucking rough. And you're not gonna be having time to do a lot of the things that Varg did while he was in prison. While Varg was in prison, he recorded multiple albums he did not have access to. Oh, and by the way, before I forget, yes, I wanted to mention that, though shortly after he was sent to prison, an album was released, classic album in Black Metal Mayhem, Des Mosteris, Dom Satanas, which featured Varg on bass guitar and Euronymous on guitar guitar. So it's one of the few records in history where you have a murderer and his victim playing on the same album. It's a great album, by the way, especially the song Freezing Moon. So anyway, you have. Varg is now in prison he's recording ambient records now because he doesn't have access to his instruments. And during this time, Varg undergoes a major, major change, because he's now stuck in prison. So he can't be out doing the things he wants to do. He can't be out having fun expressing himself the way he wants to. So what does he do? He becomes very introspective and he starts to move towards the mind. And this is where Vargas transforms into the man we know today. Because when Varg was young, he was wild and he was fiery and very chaotic, crazy. But when he goes to prison, Varg uses that time to distance himself from that aspect. He throws himself into the Vishudi. He throws himself into his adversarial state. And he begins to read obsessively, reading many, many books. He reads so many books. By the time he finally was released from prison, he said that he was just sick of reading, he didn't want to read anymore. He read so many books and he's creating this ambient music. His music changes drastically. It becomes way more introspective, way, way more cold. Burzum is a rare example of black metal. There's a cold element to it, but it's also quite fiery in its expression. But the ambient music is different. It's very cold. Especially the stuff that he was creating in prison. And then he starts to become. He changes his look, he cuts his hair, he shaves his head, and he starts to organize a bit more. He starts being more of an intellectual figure within the National Socialist movement. And he actually starts an organization which, by the way, he still to this day claims he never had any association with, called the Norwegian Heathen Front, which is a Norse pagan National Socialist organization. Remember, Varg claims that he never had any association with the nhf. However, the nhf, their mailing address was Varg's fucking PO box. So clearly, the. The bullshit strikes again with Varg. But he did direct this organization very clearly. And he began to write. He began to write a lot more about his ideas. And his ideas began to develop. They began to become more nuanced. He had more of an intellectual pers. Not so much active, explosive expression, not so much direct action, but this refinement of his ideas. But he hated prison. He hated feeling trapped, because, after all, he's a Manipura man in containment. And one of the worst things for someone rooted in the Manipura is to be contained. This is a horrible feeling for someone who's in the Manipura. They need to be out, expressing, exploring in the world. And he's stuck in this prison that's just basically like a hotel. Now, at some point while he's in prison, Varg has a story published about him. This is around 2003. And this story is very critical of him. And as a result of this story, he starts to be attacked by some of the prisoners. And this is a major problem for him. He actually writes a letter to his mother about how he's essentially being bullied by the other prisoners as a result of this story that's been written about him. And he sends this off. And then while on an outing, while on a limited release, Varg escapes from prison in 2003. And he. There's this crazy manhunt for Varg. He hijacks a car from a family at gunpoint. He tries to stay out of prison. Now, once again, we have two stories here. We have the story of Varg is getting bullied in prison and he's scared for his life, so he runs away. Or we have the story that Varg likes to give now, which is that he wanted to escape prison, prison so that he could fight for the establishment of a white homeland and die fighting. Which is a common motif with him because anytime he does something impulsive, anytime he does something reckless and it blows up in his face. He has this story that he goes to about how, oh, I was just doing it because I wanted to advance the will of my people. I wanted to save the white race. It's a very common theme for him. So Varg is captured and he's brought back to prison. He kind of gets a slap on the wrist for this escape attempt. And then finally he gets an early release from prison in 2009, after which he moves to France with his autistic wife. She's very autistic. Her name is Marie Cache. He changes his name to Louie and he starts to record some more music, more Burzen music, which is really good stuff, but it takes on a new flavor. So instead of like the dark imagery, he becomes very solar in his presentation. And this solar aspect is reflective of his embrace of Odinism, because Varg developed this highly traditional, very conservative, almost like this trad life type ideology while he was in prison. And a lot of it is linked to ideas which we are about to discuss that he promoted on his YouTube channel, Thulian Perspective. Now, most people who know of Varg now know him through his YouTube channel. He established this YouTube channel in order to talk about his ideas regarding modernity. And the Varg that we see on The Thulian perspective YouTube channel way different than the Varg who was part of the Norwegian black metal scene. The new Varg is cooled off, way more intellectual. He is a Manipura man stuck in the Vishudi. And I say stuck because he has some serious, serious maladjustments in that state of consciousness. So let's get into now for the last part of this lecture, some of Varg's major beliefs that are actually highly influential within contemporary paganism. Because Thulian Perspective was a very successful channel. It's been nuked by YouTube now. He had his channel removed from him when he got up to, I think it was like 250 subscribers or 250,000 subscribers or something like that, and his channel was removed. But very successful in presenting his ideas, especially with the niche nature of these ideas. And so let's go through some of these major ideas of Varg Vikranes. So one of his biggest ideas that he likes to promote is that Europeans are Neanderthals. So Varg completely rejects the out of Africa theory, completely. He believes that Europeans are a separate species from Africans and that European people are actually Neanderthals and share a bear cult, sort of like a muladhara, divine feminine mother cult of the bear. They share this cult, the Neanderthals kept it and then passed down to the Europeans. Now, I am not going to get into the pitfalls of the racial science of contemporary anthropology because there is a lot to unpackage and there's a lot of bullshit. All I can say is that nobody knows the origin of contemporary humans with 100% certainty. And the kind of insane dogma surrounding these ideas that drives people towards ridiculous political action. And feeling this intense emotional attachment to these ideas is really holding people back very intensely. Varg is obsessed with the idea that Europeans are Neanderthals. And this is something that he talks about a lot, a lot. And really, I'm not going to comment on my views on Europeans as Neanderthals. I will say, well, I'll. I'll give you this. I don't want to get into it because I don't want to derail the conversation, but I will say that I do not believe that Europeans are just Neanderthals. The way that Varg and other white nationalists present the Neanderthal theory, I rejected completely. We'll leave it at that for now. He also believes in European survival through procreation. He is a very intensive supporter of the trad wife idea. He wants to make sure that Europeans have as many babies as Possible. Vargas had a shitload of children. Like I can't even count them at this point. He keeps his autistic wife pregnant constantly. It's like insane the number of children he has had. He really believes very intensely in the idea of quantity over quality when it comes to the preservation of the European people. He believes that if Europeans just keep having babies, it's like that is your directive in this life is to have more babies and that that will somehow save Europe. That is a very important idea to Varg also the idea that civilization is going to fall and should fall. He is an anti civilization anarcho primitivist. He will reject this. He will say, no, I'm not an anarcho primitivist. I'm not at all. But he is. He is a Ted Kaczynski style anarcho primitivist. Now, of course, Ted Kaczynski would also. Whatever. Who gives a shit what Ted Kaczynski would say at this point? Because, well, I mean, he's dead now. But these people are insane. They literally are just these, these are Manipura people who have been completely lost in the Vishudi and they are so antisocial at that point because they've lost all direction according to their rooted nature. They don't know how to interact with people anymore. And so they literally segregate themselves away from the rest of the world and they start building bombs, they start, you know, talking about how everything needs to collapse. We need to just destroy civilization completely because they are that scared of interaction with other human beings. Varg has been offered insane amounts of money to play Burzum music live. I mean, insane amounts of money that would help his ever growing family live much more comfortably than they do now. But he refuses. And he claims that he won't play music live because he just doesn't want to. It wouldn't be fun for him. But I know the real reason. The real reason is because he literally is like a Ted K. Anarcho primitivist living in the woods, who is terrified of society and does not want anything to do with it at this point. He believes that technology is just bad, that Europe needs to return to the Bronze Age and stay there, which is a total maladjustment of the Vishudi, because the Vishudi is an aspect that embraces industriousness, it embraces technological development. But he has not integrated the Vishudi very well. He now has reached the archetype of the anarchist, which is the. The Manipura jester who moves towards the Vishuddhi Knight archetype and the anarchist can be a very healthy manifestation. But his manifestation of this combination of energy, very, very self destructive. He has these weird. Because he has an autistic wife who's much, much younger than him. And it's a really weird relationship. I find it to be disturbing. And he has these weird theories about autism that I think he uses to justify the weird relationship that he has with his wife. Like he argues that autistic people are like wilder, they're more primitive than non autistic people. So really it's the non autistic people that have the problem. And the autistic people are how we should be. Which is funny because it's like, can you imagine the severely autistic people left in the woods alone? It's not going to go well, typically. So very strange theory. And really what it is is it's a sign that Varg doesn't understand consciousness. He has this belief that obsessive maladjustment in the Vishudi which is what most autism is, is somehow a good thing. Well, of course he believes it's a good thing because he doesn't know how to self reflect. He cannot admit that he's done anything wrong in his life. And so when he has this broken aspect of the mind that he fails to repair, he just says, oh, it's a good thing. I'm the most European of all Europeans because I'm the pure autist. And my wife is even more autistic than me. And so that's why her writings are even more profound because she's the super autist. And we're going to have more autistic children because that'll make Europe such a better place. Okay, then we have permaculture. Permaculture is very important to Varg. I love permaculture. I think it's great. I've actually helped to construct a massive permaculture garden with one of my students, two of my students actually. And I've constructed my own permaculture gardens. Permaculture is great, but Varg believes that permaculture is the way, it's the only way. And that any type of agriculture beyond permaculture is just another aspect of civilization that needs to be thrown away. Whatever, Varg. Then we have Varg's take on mythology, which is really telling because Varg believes that all mythology is purely metaphorical. He doesn't believe that any of the tales within the myths ever occurred. So he doesn't believe in the Yugic cycle properly. He doesn't believe in the living aspect of the gods. He does believe in the spirit. However, he's not an anti spiritualist, he's not an atheist materialist. He just takes a very scientific approach that is sort of like a pseudo. It's really a pseudo scientific approach, a broken scientific approach that is indicative of his maladjustment within the Vishudi. Varg's approach to Norse paganism is very confused. He's an Odinist and he views Odin as like this benevolent father figure, which is totally wrong. Odin is a creepy son of a bitch. Not at all a benevolent father figure. He is a father, but he's like the kind of father that would take you to the fair and like leave you for three days and then show up later drunk off his ass. But at least you learned a lesson while you were there. Living off of peanuts that were dropped on the ground. That's the kind of father that Odin is. But Varg views him as this, like benevolent trad life father who's going to lead us towards, you know, gingham dresses and flower crowns. And this is reflected in the shitty fucking music that Varg is making now, which is like, I shouldn't say it's all bad. Some of it is good ambient music. But then he has like these hymns to Odin that sound like some kind of weird Christian church music, which just is like a sign that he's being corrupted by Abrahamism. Even though he hates it, it's still corrupting his spirit because he's broken. I mean, Varg has completely rejected black metal. He looks back on those, those days with absolute disdain. And. And I'll get to that in just a moment, but I don't want to get off track too much. I want to talk about the placenta cult. So Varg believes that all European paganism can basically be summed up in the placenta. Now, the placenta aspect in mythology is real and he wrote some good books. He and his wife wrote some really good books called Paganism Explained, which talks about this one specific aspect of European tradition that is the placenta cult. Now, we're not going to go into the details of this, but basically there are symbols within European folk tradition, within European myth, that all relate to fertility and the placenta. And you can see this as part of like the childbirth process, with Loki representing the adrenaline that the mother utilizes to push the baby out. And the aspect of the father is the placenta, the devouring aspect. All of these things, these are within the myth. But Varg is deeply obsessed with this one aspect and he talks about it incessantly. So also, one other thing that Varg is very much a proponent of is reincarnation. But the reincarnation that Varg speaks of is not of the Aryan reincarnation tradition. Instead it is more of like the Hindu degenerated idea of reincarnation, which is this very like vulgar expression of reincarnation which just plays into this sort of like weird social Darwinism, pseudo social Darwinism mixed with spiritualism that Varg is embracing nowadays. And these, these are all aspects once again of Manipurah man, who is really failing to take the good aspects of the Vishudi and integrate them into his consciousness. He thinks he's making a good point, he thinks he's being intellectual, but it's all actually just nonsense. It's all broken ideas and totally detached from any sort of self reflection. He's still just ramming the wall and not really introspecting fully, not really stopping to smell the flower crown. So one last thing I want to talk about with Varg is his treatment of music. Now this is really disappointing because for any Manipura person, the guiding light of their life is their creative pursuit. It is art. These are natural artists and they need to be expressing their art. It's sad to see Varg talk so poorly about his old music, about the black metal scene. He once said in one of his videos that, you know, he doesn't care about his guitar. He'll throw his guitar away. He'd rather be buried with one of his farming tools. Because he, this, his new identity is. He's the anarchist in the woods. He's the, he's like Ted Kaczynski. He has no room for art anymore. He wants to just do practical things, live, live in that practical matrix that he is taking on and being so cut away from his music. He has pursued some creative aspects. He has this tabletop game called nifeirog which he's created, which is sort of like super racist Dungeons and Dragons. And it's some sort of outlet for his, for his creativity. But he feels the need to justify it by saying, well, I created it for a homeschooling tool, you know, because his new identity is he's this, he's this like father who's totally in control of himself. He's got total self control. He's not going to do anything reckless because I believe that deep down Bark knows that he is impulsive, he is fiery, he is fucking crazy. That is his nature. He does impulsive Fiery things. When he was younger, it was in an unrefined state and maybe he made some mistakes, maybe he made some really fucking bad mistakes. But he was acting in accordance with his nature and he was pursuing something greater. Now he's lost that completely. Now he is making himself out to be this family man, this family guy who has no time for his wild black metal Persona. And this is a shame because he could be both. He could have his family and be the crazy, wild, impulsive black metal musician. But he won't do that because deep down I believe that he is very scared of what is inside of him. He's scared of the way that he behaved when he was younger. And he has said before that he's ashamed of his beliefs, or not just his beliefs, but his actions. When he was younger. He actually has a child that he had with a woman before he went to prison who he doesn't have any contact with. And he said, you know, that he feels ashamed about how that situation went. He is very self critical about everything that he did, or at least almost everything that he did prior to prison. I believe that he utilized prison as a way to contain himself because he's afraid of that wild fucking beast within him. And so now he's stuck. He's stuck in his adversarial consciousness and he's really a miserable person because of it. He's not happy. It's very clear he's not happy. He's very misanthropic, he hates the world, he wants to see the whole world crumble. And he's not really creating anything of the substance that he created when he was younger. Because I will tell you, if you listen to the Philosophem album, which was the last album that he released before he went to prison, that music is unspeakably beautiful. It's magic. Setting aside all of the crazy things that he was involved in, no matter what you think about his politics or anything he's done, that record is really something special. He's not done anything like that even close since that time. But it's still within him. That creative potential is still inside. And he could tap into it if he wanted to, if he had the will to do it, if he had the courage to do it, the guts. Because that's ultimately what's holding him back, is fear. Fear is what draws you away from the gut. Fear is what draws you away from the inner fire. If you can't take that fear and burn it in the belly, it will consume you and it will drive you into isolation, it will drive you into an unhealthy introspection and you will be dead to the world. And unfortunately, in his current state, Varg is dead to the world. Yet he still has had a major influence on a lot of people, unfortunately, because the energy that he's putting off is not the Aryan spirit. He does not have access to the Arian spirit, he does not have access to the gods. And the paganism that he is promoting is nothing but a further degradation of the once beautiful land of Norway.