# rtt lecture - Solar Cycle Explained

The solar cycle is an important aspect of yogic tradition and Aryan tradition in general. And so I'm going to describe the relationship between the solar cycle and the seven states of consciousness represented by the chakras. I'm also going to demonstrate how specific aspects of the solar cycle relate to Arianism. So let's begin with the concept of the sun salutation, which is one of the most common practices within yoga. For those of you who are unaware, the sun salutation is an aspect of Hatha yoga where asana is utilized in order to salute the rising sun. This is of course, a morning practice. Typically, in its esoteric aspect, it should be directed towards hailing the sun as it rises. The sun is very important within yoga because it represents many different things, both internally and externally. From an internal perspective, the sun represents an aspect of the self, of the will, of the ego. It also represents fire, elementally the inner fire. And in its various stages throughout the solar cycle, it takes on differing characteristics. So let's go through the entire solar cycle, from the rising sun back to the lunar cycle, which ultimately in the Aryan tradition, is part of the solar cycle. Let's begin at the Manipura. The Manipura is the birthplace of the rising Sun. This is the first sun we see in the morning. This is the sun that is in the process of birth. The rising sun is the sun that we salute during the sun salutation. Next we have the noontime sun. This is the sun in its most prominent position and it is associated with the Anahata. This is the aspect of the sun as ego. Following the noon time sun at the Anahata, we have the setting Sun. At the Vishuddhi. This represents the point at which the ego begins to dissolve into the process of contemplation. On the right hand path and on the left hand path. This represents imminent contemplation, or being able to take hold of the sun and drag it down. This is an aspect of the mind, the dragging of the sun through a contemplative act into the body. After the setting sun, we have twilight. Twilight is associated with the Ajna and it is the point where the sun exists between worlds. It is piercing the veil. This is the sun aspect of subtle space, of super consciousness in terms of accessing other planes of existence beyond the present dimension. We then have the midnight sun, the darkness, total darkness, which is representative of Sahasra. Sahasra in total blackness is the unification of things. It is the bringing of all things into oneness. At the monistic point, this is where most modern depictions of the solar cycle will end because the focus is on the sun aspect alone, which begins in the Raja state and ends at the Sahasra. But the lunar aspect is part of this cycle and it represents the earth mother aspect or the Tamas aspect of the solar cycle and consciousness. And therefore it should be included in any Yogic description or any Aryan description of the solar cycle. So here we have the moon as it's revealed. This is the Muladhara, the pure lunar aspect. And then we have the setting moon. The setting moon is the Svadhisthana. It is the place between the pure earth expression, the pure lunar expression and the shift into the light towards the fire. This is the differentiating aspect, the point where the moon is dragged into the fire and and we see the birth of the sun of the active expression. Now all of these aspects are very important to yoga because the solar cycle is a representation on one scale of the process that we experience through Kundalini. Both on the right hand path and on the left hand path we see the sun, the fire, the will dragged out of the earth in drawing out the moon, sparking the flame in the belly and then utilizing the active expression once we have the spark in order to advance through the contemplative states and finally reach the monistic point at the Sahasra. This is represented by the solar cycle and it is also represented in our Kundalini practice. Now the Left Hand Path brings us into a new understanding of these elements of the Sun. Specifically, once you have achieved self realization, once you have reached the Left hand path, you must express the will towards realization of the self. And that occurs at the Anahata. This is the sun at its fullest expression in the sky. When the sun is at its fullest expression, this is when you have ultimate will towards realization. It is not advancing towards dissolution. It is standing strong at that state. And this is the solar cult that so many people try to access in modernity. However, to access this aspect of the solar cult, you must be in alignment with the Aryan tradition. Otherwise you will only be able to access a degenerated aspect of the solar cult. And such aspects of the degenerated solar cult are very common in modernity. So how does all of this explicitly relate to the Aryan tradition? Well, the place of the Aryan tradition in terms of consciousness is the Manipura. This is an idea that is very heavily occulted in Tantric tradition. Some may think that Arianism exists at the Sahasra, but that is not where Arianism rests because that is the place of transcendence that is the rejection of the affirmation of life. Also, confusion arises regarding race because the European people are a Sahasra racial body. And so those who associate Arianism explicitly with the European people may instinctively connect the Aryan tradition to the Sahasra. But this is not the place of the Aryan tradition. This is not the birthplace of the solar cult. Some may also believe that there is a connection between the Anahata and the Aryan tradition due to the point of balance that exists within the Anahata. However, this is also not the case because Tantra itself is rooted in the Anahata. And Tantra is not explicitly an Aryan tradition. It is simply a system for accessing various states of consciousness and then realizing the self. And realization of the self is not limited to Arianism because not everyone is dharmically Aryan. So what is the true root? It is the Manipura. And why is the Manipura the the true consciousness root of Arianism? Because this is the active expressive element that ties into our biological reality as well as the reality of the cosmos as we relate to it. Being human beings, being individuated aspects of humanity, every human being is born of the mother in the belly. The belly is the seat of creative expression. It is the birthplace of every Aryan spirit. The fire of the belly is what gives us our spark towards life. Furthermore, the Manipura is the seat of prana. It is the place where prana is distributed throughout the body. Our experience of birth impacts our connection to other planes of existence. We experience the gods through our life cycle. They are a reflection of us and we are the reflection of them. And so when we are born of the belly, when we are born of the gut, the Manipura, from the womb of the mother, we have an immediate relationship to the cosmos that is informed by that process of birth. And in fact, if we examine the structure of this present dimension, we see that our cycle of life is very much informed by the creative spark of fire. If we choose to affirm life, there are, of course, alternative perspectives regarding the relationship between man and the creative spark in the belly. There are some who believe that man is the product of the word. And so therefore, the birthplace of man is in the mind. At the Vishuddhi. There are others who believe that man is the product of a cosmic egg. And so man is born from an egg, much like an insect or a bird or certain types of reptiles, even fish. But no, this is not true. If we examine the nature of man, we see that man is in fact born through sexual union between a man and a woman. And the creative spark is placed within the belly of the woman. When man is born, he has a special relationship to the mother. And this is where the aspect of the black sun enters into the solar cycle. Within Aryan tradition, within Aryan myth, we have the relationship between the usurper, the black sun and the mother. For instance, the relationship between Cronus and Gaia in the overthrowing of Uranus. Within this tradition, which is something that echoes throughout all of Arianism, we see that when the solar patriarch becomes decadent, when the solar patriarch falls into old age, he must be usurped. He must die, either through passing on his lineage peacefully or he must be removed by force. And due to the willful expression of the Aryan spirit, we see in the mythology the expectation for the removal of the willful patriarch by force. We find the patriarch in decadence when he rejects the feminine principle. This is the sterile rejection of the divine union, the, the sexual act that is the foundation of all Arianism. When we lack a healthy relationship between Shiva and Shakti, between what is masculine and what is feminine, we see the death of Arianism. The only way to resurrect the Aryan tradition is through the aspect of the black sun within the solar cycle. The black sun is accessed through allegiance with the mother. Now it's important to recognize that Arianism is not a lunar cult. It is not a matriarchy. The goal is not to elevate the lunar aspect to the role of absolute rules ruler. Instead, the goal is to revitalize the solar aspect through allegiance with the mother. And so the lunar aspect, through the doctrine of counterbalance, is accessed in order to create counterbalance to the degenerate solar cult. You cannot go directly into an embrace of the solar aspect and achieve revitalization of the Aryan spirit because you are operating through the zeitgeist of the degenerated sun. Whether you like it or not. You have to accept the fact that when the sun falls into degeneration, it is no longer an Aryan sun. And so working within the solar tradition will taint the movement towards revitalization. Instead, it is absolutely necessary to apply the counterbalance with the lunar principle. And here we have the aspect of the eclipse, the moon covering the sun, and this is the black sun. It's important to recognize that the moon is not the black sun, but it is a facilitator of the black sun. Shakti is not the black sun, but she is the mother of the black sun, an allegiance between the usurper, who is the true black sun, and the earth mother. Brings about the death of the aging, degenerated patriarch and the rise of a healthy, youthful expression of the new Aryan empire. The spring that brings about the new tradition, the new order that reigns until the time comes again when the cycle must be renewed and the next black sun rises.