# rtt lecture - The True Nature of Satan

Tonight I'm going to reveal some things about the nature of Satan and Satanism that have never been revealed before in public. Now, just as a note, the beginning, I want to state that for thousands of years, Satanists have had to exist in a subterranean fashion, because to be a public Satanist would be to place a very large target on your back. And for the past 2,000 years or so, in most of the world, if you publicly identified as a Satanist, you would be burned at the stake, stoned to death, or executed in some other really gruesome manner. So it makes sense that Satanism has been very subterranean, very occulted. Now, some people would argue that the reason why Satanists act in a perceived underhanded manner is because they are not trustworthy people. They are snakes in the grass, basically. But really the conditions have not been right for the kind of intense public affirmation of life and the will to power on a cosmic scale that is represented in the figure of Satan. And due to the occulted nature Satan, there is quite a lot of confusion regarding the fundamental nature of that which is Satanic. So tonight I'm going to reveal some information that has been hidden for a very long time. Information that was kept under lock and key for the safety of those involved in the cults that uphold the glory of Satan. This information was even occulted by Anton Lavey, who, although was very public in his affirmation of Satan, was very coy in the way that he presented Satanism. And of course he had to be, because if he was publicly affirming the things that I am about to affirm, he would not have gained much traction and the Church of Satan would have been a failure. He would not have laid the foundation for the development of the Temple of Set or this school. So I applaud him for the work that he did and the discernment that he applied in presenting this information. But the time has come for this information to be revealed to the public. So let's begin. Satan is not an individual being. He is not a man with horns. He is not a goat. He is not even a he. There is no being known as Satan. And I'm not expressing this from an atheistic perspective. I'm not saying that Satan is an archetype. Satan, properly understood, is a condition. And this condition precedes Abrahamism by thousands of years. It is a mistake to associate Satan with one single image, one single being. It is a mistake to equate Satan or Satanism with the Abrahamic tradition. Satan is incredibly ancient. This condition even precedes the word Satan. But this word that we have, that represents this condition, its origin, its occulted origin, is found in Sanskrit. We have two words, Sat and Tan. And these words, when combined, form Satan. So let's explore the meaning of these Sanskrit words starting with Sat. Sat is a word that means many things. But primarily Sat means God, existence and being. And so when you see the word satisfaction within Sanskrit texts, it's associated most commonly with the Supreme Being, with Brahma or with the monistic point. But properly understood, we see that these texts all possess the sensual right hand path bias of the occulted practice of the Indian tradition. Because the occulted practice requires the first initiation be presented in the texts, and the second initiation remains occulted. And within the second initiation or the left hand path, we find that Sat refers to God as any being that is fully self realized. Now what does it mean to be fully self realized? Either one develops to the point where they are absorbed into the Godhead, becoming one with God, or one transcends the cycle of time and becomes an individuated being beyond time, outside of time, no longer conditioned by it, but now master of time. This is what it means to be Sat. Let's examine the word Tan. Tan means to spread, continue, cover, prepare, become and propagate. There is a great deal of meaning, esoterically speaking, to this word when it is combined with Sat. Let's do that. Now with Sat and Tan comes Satan. Put simply, Satan is the condition becoming God. And so any individual who is on a path towards self realization, whether that individual seeks total unification with the Godhead or seeks individuated expression, that individual is Satan. They are of the condition of Satan. But there is a great deal of complexity beyond this simple definition. For example, when we examine the word Satan, we find great richness in its magical application. To spread Tan, to spread, to spread over Sat God. So this describes the process by which one may achieve Godhood. To spread what one's essence or will beyond God. This is to overcome the tyrannical aspects of the godhood. And by doing so you cover the sun. This is to spread one's individuated nature to be as the black sun. And so we see here a direct relationship between Satan and the black Sun. Any individual who seeks to rise to spread their will and cover the God which prevents them from achieving their own Godhood. This individual is acting as the black sun. To continue tan is to continue to continue existence, to continue being. This means that any individual who becomes Satan achieves continual being infinite Expression of being. Either through absorption into the Godhead or through individuated consciousness expressed beyond the cycle of time. We have the preparation, preparation to become as God. This means that action must be taken. One who is Satan is not simply born into this condition. This is a condition that is achieved through work, through a great magic work. And this is all within the magical tradition of Satanism. Satanism in its true expression is the pursuit of self realization. There is a true difference between one who acts in an actual expression of Satan and one who simply claims the term. Most Satanists who you meet do not exist within the condition of Satan, and they are not pursuing the condition of Satan. Most of these individuals have no connection at all to this magical tradition, and they are only adding to the confusion. But that confusion stops now, because clarification will now be achieved. No longer can we simply associate Satan with devil horns and a pitchfork. Satan as a condition is an incredibly diverse expression, because there are as many expressions of Satanic consciousness as there are individual people in the cosmos. Because, after all, the way in which one individual becomes Satan is through realization of Dharma. And everyone has their own Dharma. There are, of course, those who are dharmically aligned with black trench coats and black fingernail polish and horns and dark aesthetics. But there are also those who are aligned with white cotton and a big shining smile and the love and light Persona. And both of these people possess the capacity to be Satanists, equal expressions of Satanism. Because at its core, Satanism is simply the affirmation of life, the affirmation of the human condition, and the affirmation of the will to power. Because at its core, the will to power is all about self realization. Power, properly understood, is the expression of one's Dharma coming into oneself. This is the ultimate expression of power. And so if you seek power in this way, if you seek realization of the self, no matter what that looks like, you are a Satanist. So how does this relate to Tantra and yoga? Tantra is the doctrine or work that is leading to yoga. It is an umbrella term that includes many different practices, many different schools of magic. But taken to its extreme, Tantra leads to yoga. And yoga is the magical path leading to the condition of Satan. Now you have to throw out this idea of Satan being this evil figure, this dark figure. Because as I said, Satan can be anything, any individuated expression, so long as it is the full, total individuated expression of an individual's Dharma. And so yoga leading to Satan means that yogic practices and by proxy, tantra because tantra ultimately leads to yoga, these practices are essentially satanic. So when the Christian preachers rail against yoga, saying that it is of the devil, that it is satanic, and that Christians should not engage in it, they're right. Yoga is satanic. Yoga is a magical system that is explicitly directed towards self realization, whether that self realization is unification with God or continuation as an individuated being. Regardless, it is the dharmic expression that is the aim of yoga. It is the condition of Satan. And so when you practice yoga, you are practicing Satanism. Whether you refer to it as Satanism or not doesn't matter, but because the energetic nature of the practice is ultimately Satanic, Satanism is in fact the ultimate system for navigating the cosmos because it is inherently linked to the fullest expression of the human condition. And not just the human condition, but the condition of all living things. Because all living things possess the will to power, they possess the will to the expression of their individuated nature and potential. And so therefore life itself is satanic. And everything that seeks to suppress Satan is anti life, anti human. When we hail Satan properly, we are hailing the self, we are hailing human potential and we are hailing beauty. We are not hailing evil. Because the Satanist understands non duality and recognizes that there is no such thing as good or evil. The Satanist exists beyond that which is good and evil. And so therefore, in its fullest expression, what is the ultimate symbol of Satanism? It is the shot Kona. The inverted pentagram is a conditional state, leading to Satanism, leading to Satan. But it is only a conditional state. It represents the return to the beast, the integration of shakti. But when you achieve full expression of Satan as a condition, you have unified Shiva and Shakti, the divine, masculine and divine feminine principle. And you have entered the left hand. And the left hand rests within the heart, within the anahata, within the shot kona, the two triangles combine, one right side up, one inverted. And in this unified principle, we, we escape the condition of good and evil. We go beyond good and evil in the expression of our will. So this is the true final symbol of Satan. And of course, this symbol, the shotkona, is utilized by the Jews as a magical symbol. Because ultimately, at the highest levels of Judaism, Jewish magicians are fundamentally satanic. The Yahwism, the Abrahamism that these magicians feed to the masses is a container to keep others from achieving the same level of power that they have achieved. And so yes, those individuals who have stated that the highest ranking Jewish magicians are satanic. They're right, they are satanic. But they're not evil. They are expressing their will to power, their will to prosperity, beauty. And they hail these things for themselves, as they should. And rather than being angry with these magicians who have taken the Shotkona and have transformed it into the Star of David to represent their true magical work, rather than being angry with them, what every healthy individual should do is become Satanic. Don't hate these Jewish magicians for doing what is natural to them, for seeking power. Instead, seek power for yourself. Become satanic and recognize your will to godhood for eternity beyond the cycle of time. Hail Satan.