# The Right-Hand Path Part 4 - Manipura

So tonight I'm going to talk about the Manipura in relation to the right hand path. And I've got a lot to say about this, because the Manipura is the state of consciousness that is for most people, the hardest to navigate within modernity. And that is because modernity is synonymous with the age of the Vishuddhi. Of course, the Vishuddhi, according to rooted consciousness, is the adversarial state to the Manipura. It's on the opposite side of the spectrum. So you have as the foundation of the Manipura the inner fire, creativity, expression, passion, emotion. And then on the opposite side, at the Vishuddhi, you have introspection, intellect, mind, air, coolness. And so if you think about the alchemical nature of the Manipura, we have fire, and in the Vishuddhi we have air. Now, these things can complement one another because you need to have oxygen, you need to have air fed into the flame to build a fire. Fire feeds off of the air, and air needs fire in order to be brought down to earth, in order to fuel expression. But of course, if you have too much air, you'll put out the flame. And if you don't have enough air, then the fire can't burn. So there needs to be some sort of balance between the inner fire in the belly and the intellect in the mind in the throat. But what happens when your entire culture is subject to the global civilizational age of the Vishuddhi? What happens when you exist within modernity, which is an age of ideas, ideation, mentalization, intellectualization of everything? Well, the order of the day is that which is cool, that which is airy, that which is of the mind. Alchemically, this is what dominates the expression of the global culture. And so if you are a being that is constituted by fire, it's very difficult to exist surrounded by a whirlwind, especially when you consider that civilizational ages define the acceptability of certain behaviors. So if you exist in a civilizational age that is defined by pure spirit, for example, such as the age of the Sahashra, identification with elements of the earth, this would be considered antisocial. For example, if you identify with your blood expression, which is an example of the earth within the self, the blood, one's race, if you do this within an age of spiritualism, you will be considered adversarial to the prevailing order, adversarial to society in a global sense. Now we can see a microcosm example of the adversarial nature of identification with the blood in the prevailing social order of Sahashira racial bodies like white Europeans, who are currently undergoing a Kundalini process, where they are in a Sahashira state. And so therefore identification with the blood in European society is frowned upon because this is adversarial to the racial expression of the European people in their present state. And this is further complicated by the presence of the civilizational age of the Vishuddhi, because the racial culture is subject to the wider superstructure of the civilizational age. So not only do you have a rejection of racial identity within Sahashra racial bodies like the European people, but you also have this added element of the superstructure of the civilizational age, of the mind, of modernity, which means that issues concerning race and spiritualism are filtered through the intellect. So if there is a debate on the subject of race versus spirit amongst the European people, what governs the debate? Is it the body? No, it's not the body. Is it emotion? No. Emotion must be set aside. Identification with what is physical must be set aside. Is it a spiritual question? Not really. Not even in the church, which claims to be spiritual, but ultimately is dictated by the Word and at its core, apologetics. What governs proper conduct in relation to the issue of race amongst the European social body or racial body is the mind. It is the marketplace of ideas. And so it is academia that ultimately has the final say over what constitutes race. And those who accept this standard as the be all end all for expressing either a rejection or an affirmation of the reality of a given thing, including race, they subject themselves to the will of the prevailing order, which is the word, which is the mind, which is the Vishuddhi. So now this brings us back to the manifestation of the Manipura in the present age. Everyone who is born rooted in the Manipura is by their very nature adversarial to the prevailing age. Therefore, these individuals are natural social outcasts. More so than any other expression of consciousness. The Manipura in the present age, in modernity, is unacceptable socially. And we can see how society is structured in such a way where expressions of the Manipura are discouraged and expressions of the adversarial aspect of the Vishuddhi are encouraged. Now, when I say that the Vishuddhi is encouraged, I have to note that we exist in the instate of the civilizational age of the Vishuddhi, which means that we exist at the degenerated form of the global civilization or civilizational age. And so, unlike the beginning of this age, where the positive aspects of Vishuddhi consciousness, the well adjusted aspects of the consciousness, in a social sense, those aspects were once encouraged. Now we exist at a time where maladjusted manifestations of Vishuddhi consciousness are encouraged by the social order. And what does that look like? Well, it looks like social isolation, alienation, depression, anxiety, solipsism, radical skepticism, nihilism. This is the defining matrix of the contemporary manifestation of the global civilization, of modernity. And when people speak of the problem of modernity and rejection of modernity, for the most part what they are instinctually rebelling against is the maladjusted aspect of the mind. And what they are seeking for the most part is reintegration of the fire, of the spark, of the flame, of creativity. And in terms of civilization and its expression in relation to rooted consciousness, what is the civilization, the form of culture that is expressed through the Manipura? Well, it is Arianism. It is what we call Arianism. Now, what we refer to as Arianism has existed for all time because time is cyclical. And the energies that produce specific cultures, they exist as frequencies that manifest over and over again throughout time and will continue for eternity. So what we now call Arianism wasn't always called Arianism and it didn't always take the specific form that it takes now. But the general frequency of Arianism within the current dimension, that has always existed and it always will exist. But now in our current age, it is disprivileged. And what is embraced in exchange for Arianism within the global civilizational culture is the Abrahamic tradition. Now we call this tradition Abrahamism or Judaism, but the Jewish frequency, the Semitic frequency, this is something that has also existed for all time. It is the civilizational expression of the mind. And so there's a reason why Abrahamic culture has been so dominant within the present age. It's because we exist in an age where the prevailing consciousness supports the structure of an Abrahamic culture. Like I said, we are in the end stage of this expression. So Abrahamism as it exists now is in its ultimate state of decadence. It is a bloated corpse at this point. And we can see the rot all around us. But of course, because Abrahamism is in this state of absolute decadence, we must suffer the death throes this culture. And of course, because Manipura people are adversarial to this decadent, dying expression of civilizational consciousness, they become the scapegoats, they become the ritual sacrifice. They are blamed for so much of the degradation that is truly the result of a dying, diseased mind. So what does it look like to be rooted in the Manipura within modernity? Well, first off, Manipura people naturally are the most expressive people. When I say expressive, I mean they express their consciousness outward into the material. And so being expressive, being fire and being the seat of emotion, the intensity of emotional expression that is exhibited by someone in the Manipura becomes quite an issue when there is this urge to drive everyone towards coolness, cool headedness, a flattening of emotion, because this is what is achieved through rootedness in the mind. You can retreat inward and you can take hold of the fire, subdue it and apply wind, apply air to the fire, until it is reduced to a small flame or is extinguished completely. And so entire institutions have been developed in order to achieve this within the culture. Chief amongst them would be the institution of modern psychology, which is a decadent Vishuddhi institution that attempts to answer all questions of consciousness through the framework of the mind. And even new forms of modern psychology, such as transpersonal psychology, which claim to seek answers to questions of psychology outside of the orthodox framework. Ultimately, they subject themselves to the same institutional matrix which leads to an embrace of the supremacy of the mind. And as a result of the spread of modern psychology as a religion within the present age, what we have is the formation of great religious texts like the dsm. And this great religious text is utilized in order to pass judgment on all states of consciousness in either their well adjusted or maladjusted form. From the perspective of maladjusted Vishuddhi, which has led to the misdiagnosis, millions of people, the application of techniques in psychology and psychiatry for describing conditions of consciousness and treating conditions of consciousness in a manner that is totally ineffective and for the most part has actually caused more damage. For example, individuals who are rooted in the Ajna have direct access to subtle space, which means that they can more easily commune with spirits outside of the present dimension of consciousness. Now, these individuals, whenever they experience physical manifestation, subtle manifestation, when they hear the voices of spirits, when they see spirits, this is not recognized as a legitimate expression of consciousness in the present age because there is a bias towards this maladjusted aspect of the Vishuddhi, which is plagued with solipsism, plagued with nihilism, plagued with radical skepticism, and there is no holistic approach to understanding what these individuals are experiencing. So instead of helping these people to understand how to operate their consciousness effectively, they are slapped with the title of schizophrenic. Now, there are specific diagnoses that you get from modern psychology that can be applied to every state of consciousness, every chakra. But of course, it's all filtered through the mind. And ultimately, the goal of treatment for these so called mental illnesses is to flatten the emotions and turn everyone into a maladjusted Vishuddhi person. Because, like I said, the wider civilizational age establishes standards of proper conduct, of behavior. And so everyone must conform that, that is the nature of a social order. And so if you have this arm of the civilization that exists to uphold the law, uphold the standard of behavior, which is modern psychology, and you have institutions that are formed in order to punish those who do not conform to the prevailing order, what you have is a complete infection of everyone and everything with the same disease, the disease of modernity. And this is troublesome for those who identify with Aryan culture, because like I said, Aryan culture is adversarial to the present culture. So if you identify with the myths of the ancient Greeks, or the myths of the Norse or the ancient Egyptians or the ancient Indians, if you identify with those traditions, your expression of a connection to the gods runs counter to what is acceptable. And so you cannot express your connection to the gods without being a social outcast or without being trampled on by the institutions that have been established to do so. So if you're rooted in the Manipura, it is expected that you shift to your adversarial state. And most of the individuals who are rooted in the Manipura that I've met in my life actually operate from the Vishuddhi because very early on in life, they are viciously bullied into their minds by society. They are expected by their parents, by their churches, by their schools, by their institutional learning facilities. All I wanted was a Pepsi. They're expected to conform to the mind, being in the mind, existing in that space. Now, this is very detrimental for people in the Manipura because existing on a spectrum with the Vishuddhi, it's easy for them to slide into that space. Everyone has an adversarial state of consciousness. And part of the yogic process is integrating that adversarial state. It's sort of like the first major poison that you face in the yogic training. You have to learn how to operate with your adversarial state. So, like, for example, people in the Sahashra have to learn how to integrate the Muladhara. They have to learn how to be okay with their physical expression. And people in the Muladhara have to learn to be okay with their spiritual expression. Well, people in the Manipura, they need to learn to be okay, with their introspective element, because, like I said, these are naturally expressive people. But that's hard to do when your rooted state of fire and emotional expression is not recognized as socially legitimate. So you cannot even begin to develop a healthy relationship with yourself before you explore the opposite side of your consciousness. And so what happens is these individuals who are rooted in the Manipura get trapped in the Vishuddhi and they begin to identify with the Vishuddhi because it's the only way they can achieve any sort of social integration. And so you wonder why there is this decline in creativity in our contemporary age, why art just seems to be getting worse and worse and worse. There are fewer creative people in the world, and expressions of art just seem to lack that creative spark. The culture seems to lack a creative spark. Everything is just shit in terms of artistic expression. Why is that? Well, it's because you took all the naturally creative people and you shoved them into their minds and you told them to go to college and you told them to be academics instead of pursuing their natural, emotional artistic expression. And that is why people have forgotten how to laugh. That is why people are stuck in this radical skepticism. That is why art sucks for the most part, because it's not just the Manipura people who suffer from this, it's everybody else. Everybody else. We struggle to connect with our inner fire because all of us, we are all encouraged to abandon that aspect of the self. That includes individuals rooted in the Vishuddhi who also have it really bad in the present age, because those individuals are encouraged to embrace the maladjusted aspect of their home consciousness. And they are never encouraged to explore the opposite end of the spectrum. So Vishuddhi people within the Western esoteric tradition, I have related them to the night, the archetype of the night, because they uphold the law, they uphold the word, they are natural warriors. They have the ability to set aside their emotions in pursuit of a goal, relentless pursuit of a goal. They are the perfect soldier. But most individuals rooted in the Vishuddhi in our contemporary culture are far from an expression of knighthood because they have been encouraged to become hermits, they've been encouraged to become obese gamers, they've been encouraged to become academics that allow their bodies to rot away into nothing in dark, dusty offices. And so where are the knights? Where is the order of chivalry within the culture? Well, it was killed by an emphasis on the negative aspects of the intellectual, the negative aspects of the mind. Because the Vishuddhi yogin must tap into fire in order to act. The great sin of the Vishuddhi is sloth. And without integration of the fire, the Vishuddhi yogin will fall to sloth. Without integration of the fire, the entire civilization that surrounds us will fall to sloth. No one is willing to take action to bring about real change. And so the system just continues to follow a track towards dissolution, complete self destruction. Now, of course, a new age will follow the present. The age of the Ajna is coming at some point. But right now we live in the age of the Vishuddhi. And so the Manipura, its expression within all of us is disprivileged. And so whenever we on the right hand path enter into the Manipura, immediately we are confronted with the problem of controlling our expression. Because those of us who are subject to the will of the social order are deeply inhibited. We are not allowed to express the truth of our emotions. And this leads to disingenuous interaction between people. Because the truth of the matter is that there is no such thing as a debate, an argument without passion. Passion is present. Emotion is present in every expression of an idea. But of course, the social order demands that we do not recognize the presence of that emotion. We do not recognize the presence of that passion. And so all debate turns into a game of who can deny the emotional reality the longest. Now, I'm not saying that debate should be defined by uncontrolled expression of emotion. There has to be balance. And there doesn't always have to be balance. Sometimes unrestrained emotion is the right approach, and sometimes heavily restrained emotion is the right approach. And sometimes a balance in the middle is the right approach. But we cannot explore the full spectrum of expression of emotion versus intellectualization, because the bias is always towards intellectualization of every encounter. Sometimes the right solution to a conflict is to bash someone over the head with a club. Sometimes words fail and you have to fight with fists, with teeth, with claw. And that is the only way that you can achieve satisfactory end to a conflict. But in the present age, in the present age, we have to assume that violence is always the last resort. And that if we have resorted to violence, it is because we have somehow failed as a species. And this denies the beauty of war. This denies the affirmation of the spark of life in the womb in the manipura, which is the opposite end of the spectrum of warfare. Because like I said, the Vishuddhi is the seat of the warrior. But it's of a specific type of warrior. It's of the tactician. It's of the individual who embraces technique, technology in order to achieve victory. But what about the position of Aries? We see the elevation of Athena in warfare, but what about Aries? What about the joy of war? What about the bloodlust? What about the recognition of the fundamental violence which is at the foundation of every civilization? Instead of recognizing the fact that this bloodlust exists at some degree within all of us, we have exported our violence. We've placed our violent machinations in the hands of cold machines, sometimes in the shape of people. And has this made the world into a more peaceful place? No. What it has led to is the development of weapons of mass destruction which allow for the killing of large numbers of people in a very impersonal way. Because God forbid, we develop an emotional attachment to the act of killing. Because, you know, if you face your opponent head on, you feel their nose shattered under your fist, you see the blood dripping down their face, you might stop right there. You might think, maybe this was enough. There might be some emotions stirred within you where you think, okay, I've gone far enough. But if you could push a button from a thousand miles away and drop a bomb on that motherfucker without ever having to see his face, you can probably just have a cup of coffee and a donut and call it a day. And so that's why conflict, developing this impersonal nature has led to the greatest atrocity. Killing has been turned into an industrial process. Not just in warfare, but also in the way that we interact with animals. Mass slaughterhouses, the mechanized destruction of life. This is the result of cutting yourself away from the seat of emotion. But, of course, the magic words are repeated over and over again. That the world will be a safer place, the world will be a better place if only we can just talk it out. If only we can retreat from the battlefield into the realm of ideas and ignore the essential fact that an individuated cosmos of competing dharma will always lead to warfare. And if war is an inevitability, you better recognize both ends of it. Otherwise, you will end with mindless bloodshed. Or you put a heartless machine in charge of the annihilation of entire communities, entire nations, maybe even the entire planet. So what does this mean for the exploration of the Manipura in our individuated yogic path? Well, first you have to recognize that when you enter into the Manipura, you're going to be a problem to people socially. Because suddenly you're going to have the urge to express yourself. And if you Start to express yourself. That causes ripples in the water, a change in the air, and people can sense that. And the shudra are uncomfortable with change. So you have to be willing right off the bat to make people uncomfortable. You have to make space for your emotional expression because the manipura is an active chakra. And as an active chakra, everything is turned outward. So when you're expressing something, you are acting violently. This is violence. Expression of emotion is violent by its very nature, but it is necessary violence, as I've already demonstrated. And so you have to start to challenge yourself to be willing to express that which is within you. So you have to create a framework for expression. And the way that I approach this with my students, who I guide in the right hand path, is through creative projects. You must view your creative passion as a yogic pursuit. So for example, maybe you've had a guitar sitting in the corner of your room for years, and you've always wanted to pick it up, but you just couldn't bring yourself to act upon this urge. Well, whenever you enter into the manipura, it's time to pick up the guitar. It's time to start pursuing your passion. And it doesn't matter if your passion is impractical, because much of what is beautiful is impractical. So you have to be willing to set aside time for an activity that is totally rooted in passion, not rooted in the marketplace, not rooted in any sort of practical application, but just purely a passion pursuit. And you have to throw yourself into this creative activity consistently. So this type of activity is just as important as your daily asana practice. It's just as important as your daily meditative exercises or your pranayama practice. You have to get creative because like I said, the manipura is the place of the womb. And everyone who is acting from the manipura is taking on a sort of mothering energy, that being the creative spark of shakti also. Now, most of us exist within conditions that are hostile to the preservation of inner fire. And so you've got to ignite that flame and keep it. And this is very difficult to achieve in modernity for all the reasons I've mentioned so far. So what do you do in order to ignite that flame? Well, it begins when you wake up in the morning. The first thing you do when you wake up in the morning, you get up, you act. Because your body, it's like a stove, it's like an engine. When that spark ignites, that's the time to act. That's the time to get the gears moving. That's the time to turn up the gas and get that flame burning. Because if you don't do that, your fire is going to be snuffed out. It's going to be really hard to reignite it. It's going to take a lot of energy. When you sleep, you're in a receptive state. You're building up energy for the ignition of a spark. When you wake up in the morning, you have this spark that ignites. Now you've got to keep it. Okay, the universe has given you this fire. You've taken the time to rest. What are you going to do with it? You can't waste it. So you got to get up and you got to act and you got to have a plan. What are you going to do in the morning? Well, the best thing you can do on the right hand path in the morning when you wake up is you have to expose yourself immediately to conditions that inflame that little spark that exists within your belly. So there's many different things you can do. Bhastrika, pranayama. That is one of the primary pranayama techniques that is utilized in this school in order to keep the flame burning. The reason why we practice this form of pranayama for the manipura is because it stimulates the inner fire. When you are breathing rapidly, you're bringing air down into the belly and you're performing the bandha, the lock on the manipura that stimulates that region. You are creating heat within the body. And that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to create heat so you can practice bhastrika. What else can you do? You can expose yourself to the cold. Now, this is a very important thing for all yogins to understand. If you're trying to encourage heat within the body, you want to surround yourself with the cold. Because the body is going to respond to its external environment by trying to generate heat. So cold showers, any type of cold exposure, a cold bath. If you live in an area with cold weather, going outside in the morning and practicing a meditation or going for a run in the cold, all of these things are going to help to generate heat. Now, while I'm on this subject, I also want to mention that there is a general sense of rebellion within modernity. There's always this sense of upheaval in the modern age. Why is that? Well, it's because the conditions that surround us are cold. And so our bodies are always trying to generate heat and this creates revolution. Modernity has been the age of revolution. And so that is why the social order has to be so tyrannical in the enforcement of that which is cold and mechanical. Because they understand somewhere instinctively, and some people understand this from a point of genuine awareness, that when you create conditions of coolness within society, you're encouraging people to rebel, you're encouraging heat. So you've got to create social structures that stifle the production of that heat. But in your own home, in your own practice, nobody is going to stifle you. You have to disallow them from having any influence over the preservation of your inner fire. You have to be aware of those individuals who are going to try to stop you in the advancement of the Manipura, in the advancement of your inner fire, in the cultivation of thumos. So first thing in the morning, you get up and you choose war, you choose bloodshed. You go into your Bhastrika practice, you expose yourself to the cold, you get your body moving, you practice your asanas, you do something in the morning. You can utilize your diet as a means of stimulating inner fire. You can eat rajas, foods, you can eat aphrodisiacs like chocolate. This stimulates the anahata, which is adjacent to the manipura and can help to increase inner fire. Or you can eat spicy foods, you can eat citrus fruits, things of that nature, foods that really stimulate the gut, get everything flowing, make you feel happy, make you feel excited. You've got to get excited and you've got to expose yourself to conditions of excitement. You've got to listen to music that expresses inner fire. You've got to surround yourself with iconography that inspires you towards action. And if you can do this, and you can do it consistently, practicing bhakti on deities like Loki, Shinamasta, any of the other Manipura deities, Aries, the God of war, conducting the invocation of Aries or similar ritual work, if you can do this and you can do it consistently, and you can make space for your emotional expression and don't allow anyone to gaslight you, don't allow anyone to try to bring you down to this false sense of cool headedness, this false objectivity in debate that forces you out of recognition of the genuine emotions that are present underneath these expressions. If you can do that, then you can keep your fire burning. Now, let me be very clear that it's not just about keeping your fire burning in the manipura. You do have to apply that counterbalance of fire to get the fire started and to keep it burning. But once it's, once it's burning you have to make sure that you do not become victim of the opposite end of the manipura, which is to throw fire on everything indiscriminately. Because this is the other attachment that can exist. Because you can become so fiery that you can no longer relate to other people. And. And you can begin to alienate yourself. And you can become so feral that you strike out at everything. So it's a careful balance that you have to reach. Whenever you find that you're becoming too aggressive, Whenever you find that you're losing the inability to relate to others. Whenever you find that you're expression of fire is becoming self destructive and you're burning yourself alive and you're running out of energy and you're crashing consistently, that's when you've got to start introducing the mind. You've got to start introducing air on your own terms. Not on society's terms, on your own terms. Because ultimately you're the one who must determine what the proper balance is for you to operate according to your dharma between fire and air. It's up to you. And you're the only one who's going to be able to feel. Feel the balance within yourself and regulate that balance. So take responsibility for the cultivation of your fire and be a keeper of the flame for eternity.