# rtt lecture - Might Makes Right

Many people are attracted by the idea of might makes right. Most people who explore ideas, political ideas, philosophical ideas, at some point, they will come across this concept of might makes right. And it's enticing to most of them, those who pursue empowerment, personal empowerment, even collective empowerment, they too will usually come across this concept of might makes right. And we can find this idea in many different works. But the most popular work within philosophy, sociology, involving the concept of might makes right is a book called Might is Right by an author who goes by the name of Ragnar Redbeard, which I think is hilarious, because if you can think about, like, what kind of person would use the pen name Ragnar Redbeard nowadays, well, that's probably the kind of person who used it back then, too. So, anyway, this book, Might is Right, it describes a philosophy that some people have called Darwinian, others have called Nietzschean. Primarily, the philosophy that you find in this book is elitist, and it is an attempt at describing master morality. So, of course, you can easily see the connection to Nietzsche here, social Darwinism as well, because there is a very intense emphasis in that book on the natural world. Not so much of an emphasis on the subtle world. In fact, the subtle world is hardly touched upon. Might Is Right is mostly a godless book, but it is a book that many people have come to in magic circles, in pagan circles, in Christian circles as well. Satanism. Some people say that Anton lavey, for example, plagiarized quite a bit from Mid Is Right in the writing of the Satanic Bible. Of course, the concepts that Anton described in the book, even if they were taken directly from Might Is Right, are ancient concepts. And lavey was presenting them in a new way. And actually he was presenting them with greater sophistication than what we find from Ragnar Redbeard. And I'm going to describe the difference here in the Satanic conception of might makes right or the tantric conception of might makes right. It's the same thing. I'm going to compare that idea to the popular understanding of might makes right and the understanding of this concept that is presented by Ragnar Redbeard in his book so that we can finally nail down an understanding of this concept, the Alamo. Okay, why am I talking about the Alamo? The Alamo is a very good illustration of the concept of might makes right in action. So the Alamo, very famous location. It was an old church that was turned into a fort, a military fort, and it was utilized by the Texans in order to defend the position against the military of Santa Ana, the Mexican military. There is great socio, cultural, political complexity that goes into the story of the Alamo. And I'm going to summarize it here, at least the parts that are relevant to our discussion. So Texas was once a part of Mexico. It's part of the Mexican empire. And at some point it was decided that the territory of Texas needed migrants. They needed people to come to Texas to work. And so the Mexican government opened up the Texas territory to immigration. Now, much of the immigration to Texas came from whites in the United States, white Americans. They traveled to Texas because they saw this land of opportunity, wide open spaces where they could make a future for themselves. And so when they traveled to Texas, they were emboldened, they were encouraged by the fact that this land was made open to them and that there was all of this possibility for improving their lives. You have to understand that most of the people who went to Texas from America, these were industrious people, these were ambitious people. These were people who wanted to carve out a place in the world for themselves. They had a lot of shakti. And so of course, if they're going to be invited to this land, they're going to go and they're going to make something out of it. And they did. Many industrious people came to Texas from America. And the growing Texas independence movement attracted some really colorful characters like Davy Crockett, the famous frontiersman, and Jim Bowie of the Bowie knife. So these were very famous Americans, very rough men, cowboys. They too were incredibly ambitious, had a lot of shakti. And so they decided that they would go to Texas and they would make something of that place. But here's the problem that the Mexicans ran into. The Mexican government allowed all of these white Americans to move into the Texas territory. And they didn't consider the fact that these immigrants had no allegiance to Mexico. The blood that was possessed by these immigrants from America to the Texas territory, this blood was quite distant from the blood of the Mexican population. And so you don't have any blood ties, you don't have any family ties, you don't have any socio cultural ties to this land. Yet the Mexicans allowed all of this new labor to come in to the territory. And it was only a matter of time before the Texas independence movement really caught fire. And one of the things that really emboldened the Texans was the rise to power of Santa Ana. Now Santa Anna declared himself the dictator of Mexico. And this didn't sit right with the libertine cowboys living in the Texas territory. These white American cowboys who came to that land for more freedom, not for less. So as soon as Santa Ana empowered himself as a dictator, that kicked off a firestorm within Texas. And the Texas independence movement became incredibly violent. And here we have the stage set for the Alamo. Now, the Alamo was very important strategic position. It was held by a small number of Texans, including Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie. And these men decided that they were going to hold that fort, they were going to stand their ground, and they had decided to carve out their place in this material world, and not one goddamn thing was going to move them from their position. And the Mexicans didn't like this because this was their territory, right? They owned this territory. This territory belonged to the Mexican empire. So a very large force, over a thousand men, marched from Mexico to the Alamo, which was defended by one tenth that number. And here we have the famous Battle of the Alamo, where the Texans fought valiantly. They fought to the last man, killing an incredible number of Mexican soldiers. The process, their sacrifice that they made their stand, that they took on that hill like Kali, they planted their boots in the ground and they would not move for anyone or anything. And they fought and died valiantly. And this inspired, emboldened, it got the blood flowing in the Texans, and so they decided to fight as well. Then Santa Anna's army was destroyed, and the Republic of Texas was formed. Now, when the Texans went to that territory, when Davy Crockett went to that territory, when Jim Bowie went to that territory, they didn't have a moral reason for going. Their reason for going to Texas and taking that land was they wanted it. It was beautiful land. They could do a lot with it. They could make themselves powerful with that land. And so they decided they would take it. And they made no apologies for this. That is the kind of might makes right spirit that used to exist in the blood of Americans. That is what led to Manifest Destiny. That is what led to the expansion of the American empire. And it wasn't based upon any kind of moral argument. Now, of course, you could find some people at that time, Christians, who would try to inject some moral reasoning into their land grabs. But the fact of the matter is every empire, every civilization that has ever been formed was built on a pile of corpses. And that's the truth of it. And if you think that's bad, well, that's a matter of perception. Might makes right is the philosophy that allowed Texas to form. Of course, if the Mexicans are going to apply this slave morality in allowing all of these white Americans to immigrate into their territory with no allegiance whatsoever to the Mexican empire. If they're going to take that kind of slave morality approach, then you see the karmic impact of this. Because might makes right really is a karmic idea. The idea is that if you apply your might towards something, you can take it and you can own it. Action and reaction. Now, of course, it's a different story in Texas nowadays because there ain't no Davy Crockett or Jim Bowie at the Alamo anymore. And so what we have is a government that has invited tens of thousands of Mexicans, hundreds of thousands of Mexicans into the territory, invited them in. These people can claim to have an allegiance to Texas, to the United States. They can claim that. But you know what? A lot of the Americans that immigrated to the Texas territory when Texas was under the control of Mexico, they said the same thing. They said, yeah, oh, we love Mexico. We love the Mexican empire. We love Mexican people. They said this. Did they mean it? Actions speak louder than words. The Mexican population that is entering the United States right now across the border, being invited in. I'm not even talking about illegal immigration. I'm talking about the population that is invited into the country. We should not assume that any of these people have allegiance to the United States. We certainly cannot assume that they have some kind of familial relation to the white population that exists within the United States or the black population that exists within the United States or the Asians, because most people operate from a state of unrefined shakti. So their closest point of identity is the blood people who have an underdeveloped intellect, who have an underdeveloped spirit, they are the most vulgar, racist people on the planet. See, the reason why Europeans, white Europeans, are so willing to invite people that are disconnected, far disconnected from their blood into their nations, is because these Europeans are operating from a point of intellect and spirit. Primarily, they don't have such an intense connection to the unrefined shakti. So they have a very limited understanding of race, and they have a very limited understanding of shakti. And so they don't usually operate from this idea of might makes right. Most of these contemplative Europeans are always trying to make moral arguments for their political positions. Very few are willing to say, this land is mine because I say it is. And anyone who wants to take it from me is going to have to kill me. Very rarely is that spoken. And if it is spoken in polite European society, you are seen as some kind of evil Bastard. Totally out of control, disconnected from the taste of the day. But we know that every civilization is built on a pile of corpses. And the true law of the cosmos is might makes right. You have no rights that are granted to you by God. That is a myth. It's a fantasy. Those rights that you claim were given to you by God, they only carry so much power as your belief in them and your willingness to defend them. If you're one white man on the streets of El Paso surrounded by a hundred Mexicans and they decide they want to take your shit, try and tell them that God gave you a right to that shit that you own. Try and tell them that and see how far that goes. These rights are not granted by anything. They are taken. If you want to have a right to anything, you have to be willing to fight and die to keep it. And that is an obvious lesson of history that is ignored by people who just cannot handle that much shakti in their life. They cannot handle it. They can't connect to the blood. They can't connect to this point of consciousness that would allow them to stand their ground and say, I'm taking this. This is mine. Or, oh, I like what you have. That's mine. Now what is might? Might is the ability to apply willpower in order to achieve something. Someone is mighty if they are able to decide to take an action and then the action is carried out. That is might. So if I decide that I'm going to direct my willpower to the formation of an empire and I'm wanting to take as much land as I can get, and if I'm able to take that land, then I have established a right to that land. I own that land because I say I do. And I can defend my ownership of that thing. Now, what we are seeing in Texas and the United States with the movement of all of these migrants into these territories, is an application of might makes right. These people, they have the will to come to this territory and stake a claim on the land. And that's what they do as soon as any migrant steps foot on this land in the United States or any other land. And they say that this is my home. This patch of ground belongs to me. That is an application of might makes right. Do they possess the might? Are they mighty enough to do it? Well, yes, they are. And why is that? Because they have learned how to use to exploit slave morality in order to assert their position. It's not like the Mexicans have affixed bayonets and marched across the border. The cartels Have. But it's not like your average Mexican has affixed bayonets, crossed the border, and started stabbing the white man to death in order to take their land. No, that's not what's happening. But what is happening is you have all of these people who have bought into liberalism. And I'm talking about people who claim. Claim to be conservatives, too, especially Christians, who have bought into this idea that it would be wrong. It would be wrong of us to hoard all of this wealth, keep it to ourselves. That would just be wrong. It's morally wrong. We have a moral duty to support all of these people. We have a moral duty to open up our door and let them piss on our fucking rug. That is slave morality. And that is the type of morality that is possessed by the vast majority of people who exist in the decadent West. And that's what it is. It's decadence. It's the same kind of decadence that led the Mexicans way back when to tell white Americans that they can come into the Texas territory. Oh, come on in, come on in. Make yourself at home. Here's some land. It's the same mentality. It's slave morality. Okay, now here's the thing that Ragnar Redbeard got wrong. In might is right. Because in might is right, he talked about how society should be led by the elite, the strong, and these are the people who apply the principle of might is right in carving out their position. Well, he got that right. But then he went on to say that, oh, the masses, they don't apply this principle of might is right. They exist in slave morality. They don't know what it means to live by the principle of might is right. Well, sorry to say, but collective strategy is might. Slave morality is might. You can use slave morality to get your way. You can make people feel sorry for you. You can create mass action through slave morality. That is a pathway to power. The Christians have used this for a long time. They get people to feel bad about themselves and other people so that they give all of their money to the church. Okay, well, that makes the church into a mighty organization. And it's not necessarily so that the people who operate these churches are applying master morality and pulling the wool over everyone's eyes. That's not necessarily so. A lot of these people who operate these churches, they too possess this slave morality. But it's a disease. It's a disease that's passed from one person to the next. It is a disease that destroys all affirmation of life. And it's a powerful disease. It's a mighty disease. It can apply its will very strongly as it did in Europe when it wiped out the pagan foundations of Europe, as it did in the Middle east with Islam, as it did in South America, as is occurring in Africa. Now you have the march of this mighty slave morality. And see. So what do we do about this? Well, we have to stop making moral arguments for the things that we do. Morality has nothing to do with it. If we want to use morality willfully and with awareness in order to advance our position, that's fine. But actually thinking that you're in the right for holding your land is a non starter. There are no indigenous people. As soon as I step foot over there, I'm occupying that land. I didn't occupy that land before. I had to go there. I had to, I had to claim it. These claims to land, they have developed over time. Nobody just sprouted up out of the ground with a fucking flag attached to their chest, okay? That kind of mushroom nationalism, it's just a non starter. People need to admit that if they possess land, it's through violence. Violence is what brought them that land. Violence is what brought them their comfort. Violence is what brought them their food and their children and their wife, whatever. And violence is what keeps it. And that's it. That is the rule of the cosmos. And if you want to argue with it, fine. But you're not going to get very far. You're going to lose that argument. Because someone's going to come along who doesn't have those hang ups. Someone's going to come along who doesn't care about the morality of what they're doing. And they're going to take those things from you. They're going to take your land, they're going to take your kids, they're going to take your wife. And when you cry and you beg them for mercy and you say please, please, what would God think about what you're doing? You think they're going to fucking care? No, they're not. Because they're not directed by morality. They're directed by might makes right. And so anyone who wants to be powerful has to take on this philosophy of might makes right. Not in the watered down Ragnar Redbeard way, but a true application of might makes right. If it requires a gang to get what you want, then form a gang. If you have to apply a collective strategy, do it. The independent elitist strategy is not morally superior to the mass strategy. Any strategy that brings you power is worthy of pursuit. Now, of course we have to understand what power is, right? Because I'm not advocating for people to just go out and bash someone over the head with a club to take their purse or something. I'm not saying that because for. For most people, that's not going to bring you any sort of power. I'm talking about power in the form of dharma, real power. So we need things to advance our dharma. Most of us. We need food, clothes, we need territory. We need freedom. We need the ability to be able to pursue the arts. We need technology. We need wealth. We need these things, right? Okay. Well, the manner in which we pursue these things and the manner in which we gain these things, this has a karmic impact. Okay? So the karma that you accumulate needs to be accumulated in reference to your dharma. Might makes right doesn't mean that you just attack everyone. And violence is always the answer. Might can come from many places. Might can come from the mind. Might can come from the spirit, from emotions, from raw physicality. There's many sources of might. You can be a scrawny computer nerd. But if you have the ability to use your mind to place yourself in a social container where you can express your will and get power, then that makes you mighty. You know, it's not necessary that you are 6 foot 6 and jacked on steroids to be strong. There are many ways to become strong. And the manner in which you become strong should be in relation to your dharma. Now, that's another thing that Ragnar Redbeard got wrong. The fact that he was quite atheistic in his presentation of this idea. Of course, he didn't recognize the significance of the subtle world. The subtle world is just as important for gaining power and working with the gods and realizing that the actions that you take in this realm are reflected out into eternity. And so you have to understand that. You have to understand the self. And once you understand the self, then you can know your dharma. Then you can know your path to power, and you can pursue it relentlessly, just like the Texans pursued the Republic of Texas at the Alamo. And just like the migrants moving into the United States now are pursuing their power. So anyone who's concerned with migrant crises or, you know, having their parking spot taken at work by some jackass in the office or having their girlfriend stolen from them, whatever it is, just realize this. If you are held back by morality, caring about whether you are good or evil, you've already cut your legs out from underneath you. You've already destroyed your chances of winning in the end. Because I'm telling you. And history has proven this right many times. If you throw yourself into that kind of decadence, someday someone stronger than you is going to come along and they are going to take your shit. And when they do it, they have done nothing wrong, morally speaking. Maybe they've acted adharmically, but in terms of good and evil, there is no good and evil. It is true. Might makes right. And we all have to recognize that if we're going to advance our power.