# rtt lecture - How to Use a Spirit Board

The spirit board or the Ouija board. Most people who encounter the spirit board are under the impression that it is just a parlor game and that there's nothing of any magical significance to it. But this is not true. The Ouija board or the spirit board is actually a very powerful device in the right hands. And that's the key. Just like any magical device, it has to be wielded properly. If you pick up a wand and you don't know how to use it, then it's just a stick. If you pick up a vajra and you don't know how to use it, then it is just a piece of metal. And it's the same for a spirit board. If you pick up a spirit board and you don't know how to use it, then it's just a game. Now, tonight, I'm going to discuss what the spirit board really is and how to use it most effectively. Before I describe just exactly what the spirit board is, let's talk about the history of the spirit board. So most people are familiar with the Ouija board, which is often sold as a game, as, like, a parlor game. And these are very common, although I would argue that they're becoming less common because the growth in charismatic Christianity or esoteric Christianity has made the Christian church increasingly aware of the dangers that are associated with the use of the spirit board. And so I have noticed that the spirit boards are being sold in fewer and fewer stores, and the only time you really find them commonly is around Halloween. Of course, this is the time of year when the veil begins to thin and people instinctively become more open to means of accessing other planes, other dimensions of consciousness. So what is the foundation of the spirit board? Well, the spirit board is much older than what most people realize. Spirit boards are a form of divination, specifically, automatic writing with a planchette. And the automatic writing with a planchette is something that took place in ancient China. Now, the spirit board is probably older than that, and the techniques that form the basis for the spirit board are certainly older than that. And it really is the technique that matters, because what we're dealing with here is the use of a vehicle, a magical vehicle, in order to achieve a specific magical outcome. And this magical outcome is, as I said, only as good as the wielder. Most people who pick up a spirit board, they might have limited interaction with subtle space and with some type of entity, some type of intelligence, some presence. And sometimes these entities can have a physical impact. But for the most part, if you want to make use Of a spirit board, you need to understand how to access the chronic channels of subtle space and how to bring entities into the natural space. And the spirit board is a conduit for this. Now, the term Ouija board, where does this come from? Who named the Ouija board? Well, Helen Peters Nosworthy was a spiritualist who did a lot of work with spirit boards, and she actually is the individual who, with her partner, popularized the sale of the spirit board as a commercial game. Now, she needed to come up with a new name for the board that could be marketed. So she asked the board to name itself, and it spelled out Ouija. And when she asked the board to tell her what Ouija meant, the board said, good luck. Now, did the board mean good luck, as in weja means good luck, or did the board mean good luck? Ever finding out what this means? Maybe both. And this interaction that is reported here in the history of the spirit board is a good example of some of the communicative subtlety that is of the essence of the spirit board. Now, prior to Noseworthy's popularizing of the spirit board, these boards were very popular in the United States. The American spiritualist movement heavily emphasized the use of the spirit board beginning around the mid 19th century and increasing in popularity from decade to decade. And by the time the commercial Ouija board was released, there was intense interest in accessing the spirit world through some type of conduit. And the spirit board became the most popular means of accessing the other side, as some would say. So does this mean that the Ouija board, the commercial Ouija board, is any less powerful than, let's say, an older spirit board before the popularization in the commercial market? The answer is no, not necessarily. As I said, the power of the board is dependent upon the one who wields it. Now, there is one exception to this, and that is the rule of prana in relation to magical items. So when we practice yapa mala, we are storing prana inside of the mala. And over time, as we continue to practice japa mala, that mala grows in power. Powerful witches, if they have certain magical items, like a wand or a broom or a cauldron, that item, as it's used continuously in ritual work, builds prana. And so these magical items may become legendary, such as Excalibur or the Spear of Destiny. These are items that contain a great deal of prana, and even a novice, if they were able to wield these items, would be able to have some type of experience. Now, usually, if you are not powerful enough to access correctly and safely the prana that is stored within one of these items, such as, let's say, for example, the Spear of Destiny, you could be easily overtaken by that item. And the same is true of spirit boards. Spirit boards, if they are utilized by a powerful magician, will build prana over time. And the prana is not only provided by the magician, but also the entities that interact with that board. So if you come into possession of a spirit board and you do not know its origin, be very careful, because you do not know whether or not that board was utilized by a powerful magician. You do not know what prana rests inside of that board. You do not know what spirits may have utilized that board in order to communicate. And if you find yourself in possession of a board that has been utilized by a figure of great maliciousness, then you can really find yourself in danger. One famous example of this is the case of Roland Doe. Now, some of you may know this name. Roland Doe is the boy who inspired the book and film the Exorcist. And in the investigation of the exorcism and, excuse me, the possession and subsequent exorcism of Roland Doe, the Catholic church determined that Doe likely became possessed through a spirit board. Now, I can tell you in my own experience that it is certainly possible to become possessed through a spirit board. And it is even easier to become oppressed through a spirit board. So, as I said, you should be very careful to determine the origin of any board that comes into your possession. Spirit boards have been around for a long time now, and there are some notorious spirit boards that are circulating the world. So if you find yourself in possession of one of these boards, how can you know whether or not it is safe? Well, you need to be able to identify pranic expressions in magical items, and that takes time. It takes practice to be able to read prana. There are exorcists who work for years cataloging the chronic essence of specific entities, whether they be demonic or angelic or somewhere in between. There are expressions of prana that are easy to identify. And this is a skill that you can actually develop through the use of a spirit board, because the spirit board is such an effective conduit for speaking with entities in subtle space and in natural space. But if you're just beginning with the spirit board, you should start out with a fresh board. Now, how should you gain access to a spirit board? I would argue that the best spirit board is one that is developed by a magician that you trust or one that you create yourself. You can buy a spirit board from A big box store, and it will work perfectly fine. Magical items tend to possess greater power when they come through a lineage or when they are created by the individual who wields that item, because there is a personal aspect to the origin of the item. So if you're going to use a spirit board, consider making one yourself. Now, how can you go about making a spirit board? Well, you can use any material that you would like, but you could make a mistake if you're not careful, because different materials do contain different magical properties. So you need to be careful when you're deciding. Wood has, for a very long time been used in the construction of spirit boards. And it's easy to carve wood. So that's one reason. But also, there are many different types of wood. Okay, so we had the entire system crash while I was recording this, and now we're going to start again. And actually, you know what, let's just jump right into this discussion. Since the recording of this lecture crashed. When you are utilizing a spirit board, you do not typically want to record the session. Because when you are accessing subtle space, communication is best made through subtle channels. Meaning that if there is some type of gross element that you introduce beyond the material vehicle, such as the spirit board, you are interfering with the connection to subtle space. It's the same principle that you would apply in spirit walking or astral projection. When you draw your awareness towards the subtle body, you want your awareness to go to the subtle body. If you are introducing another gross or natural element to the process of connecting to the subtle body, you are interfering with the channel. So, for example, if you're laying down and you want to achieve astral projection, you're going to slowly draw your awareness to the subtle body until the subtle body becomes your primary vehicle over the natural body. Now, if you, let's say, introduced some type of device that you put on your physical body in order to stimulate the physical body, like some type of electroshock equipment or something like that, what you're doing is you are drawing your awareness away from the subtle body. Any sort of physical sensation that you feel will interfere with that chronic channel. This is why spirit walking or astral projection is typically done in an environment where the physical sensation is kept to a minimum, such as a deprivation tank, a sensory deprivation tank. So the same principle applies when working with any sort of divination where you're trying to access the subtle. This is why it is so difficult to record subtle space on film, because the film that is saved is a gross representation of the Subtle experience. So you can see a ghost across the room, you can take a picture of it, but rarely does it transport into the gross expression of the film. If you are able to capture a spirit on film, it's because the spirit wanted to be captured on film and utilized an intense expression of prana in order to have some type of physical experience with this dimension. This is incredibly rare, Incredibly rare. And most of the videos that you'll see of ghosts are fake because the type of chronic expression that is required to actually have a physical representation on film of something like a spirit coming into this dimension, that is an insane amount of prana that would need to be generated. Now we are shifting into a new age where there is a deeper connection to subtle space globally. And the veil is thinning between the various planes of existence. So it's more likely that we will have recorded examples of things that are supernatural. But for the most part, if you want to have a more intense supernatural experience, you have to do it in an environment where you're not introducing added elements of gross expression. Now, the spirit board is a wonderful conduit for this. And so if you're going to craft a spirit board, you want to make sure that this conduit is constructed in such a way that it increases the ease of communicating. As I said before, you can utilize specific materials to increase the natural magical properties of the board. In some instances, and I've done this many times, you can create what are essentially disposable boards. You just have a notebook full of pages that you draw on to create a board every time you use the board. The reason why I do this is because oftentimes when I'm utilizing a spirit board, I'm accessing entities that I do not want to keep around. I don't want to keep any sort of chronic expression of that entity in my environment. So as soon as I'm done with the board, I'll burn it. So having disposable boards is. It's a good way to control your spiritual environment and keep yourself safe. With that being said, the disposable boards might not be as powerful naturally as other boards. They can be, but it all depends on who's using them. Once you have access to a board, most boards will have a basic structure. They will have all the letters of the Alphabet. They'll have yes, no, and you'll have a list of numbers. And this is very typical of spirit boards. Also, most boards will have some way of ending the communication. There will be something that says goodbye or something like that. This is important. Let's talk about the various elements of the board and I'll explain some of the additions that I've made to spirit boards that I use personally. So we have all the letters of the Alphabet. It's important that these letters are close together because as the planchette is being moved on the board, energy is being expelled. So if you're speaking to a entity that possesses limited, very limited prana, like a human spirit, you want to reduce the distance between the letters. The reduced distance between the letters allows for the conservation of prana. Now, you don't want the letters so close together that it's difficult to identify what letter is being selected, but you also don't want them extremely far apart. The same with the numbers and other elements. So we have oftentimes the yes on one side of the board and the no on the other side of the board. Now, I don't like when the yes and the no are spread far apart, because it's not like you can't affirm whether it's a yes or a no. If they're closer together, you can easily tell what is being accessed. And if you are asking a lot of yes or no questions, it takes a lot more prana for the planchette to be moved from one place to the other across the entire board. So when I create my own boards, I like to keep them closer together. Also, one element that I like to add to all of my boards is the name of all of the participants in the session, as well as certain designations on one side of the board, like demon, angel, God, human, typical spirit designations that you would utilize. This is easy because oftentimes if you're asking the same question, like you have a long session on the spirit board, you're asking questions of what is the nature of the entity you're speaking with. It's easier to have all of these designations pre written out on the board so that they can be reached instead of having to spell these designations out over and over again. It's the same principle with the names of the participants. Oftentimes a spirit will want to speak to a particular person in the session. And so having that person's name on the board, very helpful. Excuse me. Now, with any sort of spirit board work, it's very important that you are careful with what type of sigils or symbols that you include on the board, because these can have a drastic influence on the experience. If you're trying to access a specific entity, it can help to put symbol associated with that entity on the board. I've done this many times. Let's say, for example, you're trying to speak to the spirit of Beelzebub. You'll want to put the sigil of Beelzebub on the board, and you can also even include the name of Beelzebub on the board. Now, let's talk about the planchette. The planchette is something that is very adaptable, but there is a core element of the planchette that you want to preserve, and that is that the planchette is something that is easy to maneuver, and it's something that will allow you to clearly identify what aspect of the board is being selected by the spirit. I often use a coin. In fact, I use the same coin for many different sessions. If I'm going to speak to entities that I believe are particularly malicious, then I will not use the typical coin because of the principle of storing prana in that item. If that coin is exposed to a product channel that I don't want to have any regular access to, then I will use a different coin, and then I will get rid of the coin after the session. So you can use a coin, or you can use a more traditional planchette. If you're going to have a session with many different people in it, then you might want to use a traditional planchette because it allows more people to place their hand the planchette. Now, use of a spirit board is a form of necromancy. Within necromancy, we are working with the dead. We're also working with spirits outside of this plane of existence. And when we are working with these spirits, it's important that we protect ourselves and we follow certain rules. So let's talk about some of those rules. When you begin with the spirit board, there are certain methods that you can utilize for beginning and ending the session. For all of the sessions that I begin, all the participants will rotate the planchette nine times in a circle, and then we will begin the session. Now, typically, you will want all the questions to be asked by one person who is the leader of the session, because you don't want confusion to develop. If you're dealing with certain entities, you definitely don't want to exit the session prematurely. You want to follow the rules. You want to keep your hand on the planchette at all times. Do not pull your hand away. This is just a general rule of safety. If you don't end the session properly, what you're doing is you're potentially breaking the container. Now, that's what the spirit board is, it's a ritual container that we utilize in order to safely practice necromancy. If you break the seal, there is a potential for what you are speaking to to enter into your environment. This is extremely rare, but it can happen, and I've seen it happen with some very strange consequences. So always keep your hand on the planchette. Now, at the end of every session, you should always bring the planchette to some position on the board that that is a designated point where the session is closed. This is a closing of the bridge that you open at the beginning of every session. Closing of the bridge. You should do this when you're done speaking with whatever entity you're speaking with now. In regards to identifying the entity that you want to speak with, don't call upon an entity that you're not willing to actually speak with, because you might actually make contact. If you have any hesitation, you should avoid that entity. You should be very careful with what you access on a spirit board. There are some entities that if you build a bridge to them, they will not hesitate to exploit it maliciously. Also, you should not assume that whatever entity you are speaking with on the board is the actual entity that you have called upon. Many times, I have been working with a spirit board, and I've accessed something that I thought was what I intended to access, and it ended up being something very different. Over time, as you develop the ability to read the chronic expression of whatever entity you're speaking with, you'll start to notice little subtle differences. And that's the key, noticing the subtle differences. So the most important thing to remember when using a spirit board is that all of the communication that occurs on a basic level with a spirit board is subtle. So what does that mean? Well, when you're accessing the spirit board, it's important to begin by using your imagination. I've said this many times before, but the imagination is not necessarily a place of falsity. The imagination is the gateway to the third eye, which is the place where mind communicates with spirit. So you need to imagine the conditions of building a bridge which leads to the manifestation of said bridge. If you do not apply your imagination, then you will remain in a grounded position within the mind. Basically, when you begin to use a spirit board, you have to enter into a dreamlike state. And in this state of imagination, when you place your hands on the planchette and you access the board, you have to believe that you are accessing a world beyond this world. This is openness to the experience of the spirit. Now, of course, when you're utilizing your imagination and you've uprooted yourself from the grounded position in the mind, there are times when you might be tricked. Someone could be moving the planchette on their own without any sort of spiritual influence. You might do that yourself and not realize it. And that's why it's important over time to develop an awareness of the difference between the mind in the Vishuddhi and the spirit in the Sahasra and the role of the ajna in communicating between those two places. This is why I said that not everyone who uses a spirit board will get something valuable out of it. Because if you don't understand the difference between these channels of consciousness, then you're likely to confuse yourself or not notice the subtleties of the communication. Usually when an entity accesses the spirit board, they are not going to spell out every single word. That takes a lot of prana to do that. Now, there's also the element of subtlety in confirming the legitimacy of the experience. This has happened to me many times where certain words will be spelled out that seem to have zero connection, zero logical connection to the conversation. But then, as the conversation proceeds, the real meaning of that word is revealed. And in this moment of revelation, we realize that, okay, this is not just something we're conjuring up from our imaginations. The spirit is confirming their presence through the means of communication, through the subtlety of the expression. Sometimes, and this has happened to me multiple times, word, a seemingly nonsense word will be spelled out on the board. And then three days later, I'll see that word spelled out somewhere, maybe on a license plate, or it will just appear on a computer screen or something like that. There's really subtle ways that the spirit board acts as a conduit for communication. And so you have to be open to these subtle experiences. You have to be able to read between the lines. You have to be able to see, okay, the planchette is moving in a serpentine way. One time I accessed a demon, a specific demon, I won't mention which one. And the planchette began to move along the board in this serpentine pattern, just a serpentine pattern. And then we were wondering, why is this doing. Why is this doing this? Why is this moving in such a strange pattern? And it was very consistent. And then we watched as the planchette moved from place to place. And we realized that, oh, words are being spelled out in this pattern, repeating words over and over again. So you have to watch for things like that. And this Is a way for entities to let you know that, yes, you are actually speaking with something. Now, sometimes the movement of the planchette is very aggressive. Everyone can feel the change in the room. You might feel pressure against your hand. It might dart from place to place. Other times, it might move very slowly and very subtly. You want to make sure that you have a soft touch on the planchette, and you set an intention before you begin to not willfully move it. The planchette, if you contact a strong enough spirit, will move itself. There will be no need for anyone in the circle to move it. And it's really quite incredible when you have six people at a spirit board and you're having these incredible revelations. Speaking with a specific entity. I have had deep revelations about ritual work and the nature of specific practices and occulted traditions. Traditions. I've had these revelations brought to me through the spirit board. Incredible insight that I would not have accessed if I had not practiced some form of divination like this. And the spirit board remains one of my favored means of accessing subtle space and bringing subtle space into the natural space. Now, if you use a spirit board either by yourself or with others, and you can utilize a spirit board by yourself, you just have to be careful. If you utilize a spirit board, you should apply the same principles that you would utilize in any meditative exercise. You need to have an environment without distraction. You need usually a dark environment lit by candle. Sometimes candles can be utilized in the spirit board work. And I utilize a candle as an added element for increasing the intensity of the chronic channel. I light the candle as part of the ritual summoning of the bridge, and I blow out the candle at the end of the session. And this is just another way to create a solid container in utilizing the spirit board. So even though I'm ending the conversation with each entity by moving the planchette to goodbye, that does not end the entire session. So when I blow out the candle, that's a cutting of the cord with this channel. Be very careful when you are working with a spirit board, not to invite anything into the board, to exist within the board, not to invite anything into your environment, and of course, not to invite anything into your body. This is how possession works. Excuse me. Now, if you utilize a spirit board long enough, I can almost guarantee you that you're going to, at some point, come across something that is going to try to possess you or at the very least, oppress you. And this can be very tricky. You need to keep your wits about you and stay grounded in the body while you are utilizing the spirit board so that you do not come under any sort of negative influence. With that being said, the ritual use of certain substances, whether they be hallucinogens or alcohol, can increase the intensity of the experience with the spirit board, and I often utilize alcohol when I am accessing the spirit board. However, this is quite dangerous because when you begin to reduce your ability to directly influence the session because of the influence of drugs or alcohol, you open yourself up to greater influence. So be very careful when utilizing these substances. I encourage anyone who is listening to this to try the spirit board. Take the necessary precautions, make sure that you're utilizing a board that you trust, and always, always remember to read between the lines in your interactions with these entities. If you can do this, there's a lot to learn, a lot to experience, and a lot to gain from the Spirit board.