# rtt lecture - The Dharma of Kali

This is something I've wanted to talk about for a while because I am a Kali devotee and have been for a very long time. When I first started practicing Tantra, Kali was the goddess that I was most interested in. I was drawn to her very strongly. And at the time, I didn't really know exactly what it was. Kali was kind of terrifying for me at first because I discovered her through researching the Thuggee cults. And the Thuggee cults. I mean, that was something that was very scary to me whenever I was a child. The idea that if I traveled to this strange foreign land, that I might be taken into the jungle by these madmen and sacrificed to this bloody Goddess. It was a really crazy idea. It's terrifying. And then when I saw the iconography of Kali, I mean, that just solidified the terror. She's, you know, bare chested and covered in blood, long, sharp tongue, garland of heads, she has her sword in hand and this crazy look in her eyes. And I thought, these men are worshiping this goddess and they're sacrificing people to this goddess. It was a crazy thing to consider. Really, really terrifying. And for most adults, this would be terrifying to think that there's this group of wild men out in India that were kidnapping people and sacrificing them to this goddess. A really crazy thing. And that was my first exposure to Kali. But there was something about her, something about her nature that felt very maternal. And I felt a warmth from Kali. And so this intrigued me enough that I kind of. I didn't set the terror aside because I knew that the terrible aspects of Kali were important, but I saw them in combination or in unification with this maternal aspect very quickly. And I realized that if I gave her the benefit of the doubt and if I saw the beauty in everything that she had to offer, that the mysteries of Kali would be revealed to me, and this would empower me greatly. And so I decided to become a Kali devotee from a very young age. And all of my yoga practices for over a decade were dedicated to her. And to this day, I still practice primarily as a Kali devotee. Now I also am a Lakshmi devotee. But Kali is the foundational pillar, the stone, the. The earth, the solid earth that this school is built upon. And she will forever play an important role in my development, and she will ever play an important role in this school and everything that's taught in this school. So it's been. This has been a topic that I've wanted to explore for quite some time now. I could talk about Kali for days. And. And there is so much complexity in the figure of Kali in this goddess that I could fill many lectures with stories of Kali. And so tonight, what I'm going to focus upon is the dharma of Kali. What is essential to her. What do you really need to understand in order to begin to grasp Kali or practice bhakti on Kali? And that will be our focus. Kali. Kali is very interesting because the cult of Kali is something that formed after the Vedic period. Most of the surviving cults of Kali came about during the medieval times in India. But Kali is very old. Kali is older than the Vedas. She is an ancient goddess, and she was worshiped in the Indus valley before the Indo Aryans ever came to the land. She is a primordial expression of the mother in the most intense way you can possibly imagine. Kali is pure divine femininity expressed threefold. And so with Kali, you have not only shakti, but you have this animalistic, primal shakti, this shakti that is magnified to such an extent that when you access her, you are touching upon the wilderness, the most uncivilized expression of consciousness that you can gain access to in this realm. And so Kali is very freeing, very liberating to those who find themselves consumed by civilization. Now, the very fact that Kali was worshiped prior to the Vedic period is a point of contention for some people because they are concerned, why should we worship a goddess that existed prior to the Vedas if we are practicing Arianism, why should we do this? Well, the thing about Arianism is that it's prone to decadence, just as any other tradition is prone to decadence. Every magical tradition is prone to decadence. And there is a powerful strengthening expression to these traditions dependent upon your dharma. And there's also potential for these traditions to rot. And the rotten aspect of Arianism is decadence in the form of obsession with that which is solar. So if you think about decadence within the Jewish tradition, for example, let's take, for example, Catholicism. So within Catholicism, which is a part of the Jewish magical tradition, the healthy expression of this. If your dharma is directed towards Catholicism, then a healthy expression of Catholicism would be worship of the father, submission to the father. And so this is very solar, very contemplative. If you are experiencing decadence within this tradition, what you would experience is a moving away from a recognition of the father, an obsession with the mother, an obsession with the mother that would develop to such a strong extent that you would throw away the solar aspect completely and you would become consumed by the mother. And this is where you'd find decadence in Jewish magical traditions and specifically in Catholicism. So this aspect we can find within Catholicism. This is something that is present now. We have within Catholicism the cult of Madonna. And so the Virgin is very important, obviously, to Catholics. And there is a cult of the Virgin. And when the cult of the Virgin is represented in a healthy manner, in accordance with the Jewish tradition, what you have is the mother in submission. So it's important that the Madonna is a virgin because she's rejecting her immanent expression, she's rejecting physical sexuality. And so the conception that occurs within Catholicism is contemplative. It begins in the mind. This is why it is so important for Immaculate Conception to be recognized, because the very foundation of life begins in the mind. God, in the form of Yahweh, creates his Son by thinking him into existence. And so there is no penetrative act, there is no physical expression of sexuality in this aspect of the tradition. And so the purity of the contemplative aspect of the Jewish tradition is preserved in Catholicism through the cult of the Virgin. Now, there is a very secretive, very occulted aspect of the cult of the Madonna that is present within Catholicism. And that is something called the Black Madonna, which is something I spoke upon in the past. And the Black Madonna is quite different from the Virgin. The Black Madonna represents an imminent expression of divine femininity within the Catholic tradition. And so what we have with the Black Madonna is a rebellion, a rebellion against the contemplative conception. Because with the Black Madonna, what you can imagine is the nun in rebellion, the nun who abandons her vow of celibacy and explores the carnality of sexuality. And that is what is represented in the cult of the Black Madonna, which is something. A cult that is very suppressed by the Catholic Church now. And we have expressions of this in the Hispanic world as well, with different idols of the Black Madonna, which are now becoming pagan, in fact, and are expressions of polytheism. There is a fear in Catholicism that the cult of the saints and the cult of the Virgin might develop into a new polytheism. And that's something that the institutional framework of the Catholic Church is always fighting against. And so that would be an example of decadence within the Catholic tradition. What is occurring is the civility. And that's what Catholicism is directed towards, civility. Civility in the purest sense is unification. And unification in its ultimate expression is monotheism. Everything being directed towards one God, everything being of one God, everything going to one God. This is the ultimate Expression of civility. Now, when the virgin breaks her vows of celibacy and throws herself into carnality, and she achieves this lycanthropic embrace of the muladhara, of the raw expression of primal sexuality, then what you have is a break from civilization. And that is decadence. And that is what will rot the church. And that is what the church is always afraid of. The church is afraid that women specifically will embrace this carnal sexuality and that this will lead to the downfall of Abrahamic civilization. And it will. It will lead to the downfall of Abrahamic civilization if it continues. Because the end result will be the resurrection of mother worship, mother cults. And of course, the foundation of Arianism is the Mother, the Mother cult. And so what we have with Kali is the Mother cult. Now, the foundation of Arianism, as I said, is the Mother cult. And we see this foundation in the Manipura, the Manipura being the womb. It is the creative fire. And Arianism ultimately is creative. And in order to be creative, you have to have material to create from. It is active creation. So you have material expression of individuation existing from the standpoint of the Yuga cycle within the Dvapara and the Kali Yuga. And so we have this very intense creative expression beginning in the gut or the womb. This is the connection to the mother. And of course, in Arianism, there's this grand tradition of rebellion against the father. I've talked about it many times, but basically the son, the sun, S O n and S u n, the rising sun, is an upstart figure. He's in rebellion against the aging patriarch. And so the solar dynasty as it exists, always has this pressure from underneath to be strong, to affirm life, to affirm positive conditions in the material world. Because the threat that exists underneath everything is the rebellion, the bastard sun, the rising sun, the black sun. Now this rising sun, this rising figure that places pressure on the ruling patriarch. Where does he gain his power? Of course, he's not as powerful as the king, because the king has the realm, the king has the army. So he has to find favor somewhere. He has to find a source of power in order to eclipse the king. And where does he find that source of power? In every grand Aryan tradition, whether it's the Greeks or the Indians or the Japanese or the Norsemen, the source of power is the mother. When the bastard son aligns himself with the mother, Mordred aligning himself with Morgana against Arthur, when this occurs, we have the ultimate expression of conquering power within the Aryan tradition. Which is the black sun. This is the eclipse. This is when you have the birth of a new sun, because the lunar aspect and the lunar aspect is the mother, the solar aspect being the father. When you have the lunar aspect rising to eclipse the sun, this grants power to the rising sun in order to assume power. And so within the Aryan tradition, we draw down the moon. We draw down the power of the moon. In traditional witchcraft, this is what we do. We go out on the black Sabbath and we draw down the moon. We are drawing down the power that the mother grants to us, and we are absorbing this power, and we're using this prana in order to advance our power, to grow in strength. Now, why would we do this? Well, because every kingdom is prone to decadence. And just like there's a pathway to decadence in the Jewish tradition, as I illustrated with Catholicism, there is a pathway to decadence in the Aryan tradition. And this pathway to decadence in the Aryan tradition is the rejection of the mother. So we begin with elevation of the mother and realizing that the mother is important. But of course, the mother is only important until you assume power. Right now, the monarch who wishes to rule in accordance with balance, with union, divine union between the mother and the father, which is possible with Arianism and not possible with the Jewish tradition, because the Jewish tradition relies upon rejection of all other gods but the father. Within the Aryan tradition, we have polytheism, and this is ultimately a shakta tradition. So the idea is that because we recognize differentiation, we can see the moon existing with the sun in balance. Once the eclipse occurs, it's not that the moon remains as the only light in the sky. We have many lights. We have the sun, we have the moon, and we have all the stars representing the polytheistic expression of divinity. And so within this tradition, everyone can become a God. But what happens when the patriarch decides that he does not want to share power? Well, what occurs is Aryan decadence. And this is when the mother is rejected and placed in a bind. And we see this now in contemporary Shaivism, specifically Kashmir Shaivism, where the idea is that every practice within the Indian tradition is directed towards absorption into Shiva. And of course, this is viewing shakti as being only poison. Only poison, only evil. There's a dualistic morality that forms where the divine feminine is recognized as an evil force, something to be crushed, something to be destroyed, so that you can unite with the aspect of Shiva and forever hold the divine feminine in chains. So what allows us to renew this? Well, this is where the cult of Kali comes in in the Indian tradition. So we see with the rise of Vedic civilization, great conquering spirit fed by the mother cult, fed by divine union between the sun and the moon. But of course, the Vedic civilization became decadent and. And the focus shifted from this balanced aspect to an obsession with the father, the solar patriarchy. We see this kind of obsession now in our contemporary culture. We'll get more to that later. But so this obsession with the solar patriarchy formed, and this weakened the people. And why did this weaken the people? Because they became too civilized. They became decadent as a result of the civilization that formed. Too comfortable. Too comfortable in their power. Feeling like they don't need access to the raw material expression. I mean, I'm sure every one of us, we are aware of people who have moved to the city and after generations, their children's children became so soft because they are so disconnected from the land. They don't know where their food comes from. They don't know where the building materials that created their apartment complex comes from. They don't know where any of these material. The material structure around them. They don't know where it comes from. They don't know their own mother. And so they become very soft and civilized. And what happens, what happens when a civilization becomes soft and civilized? Well, what happens is the barbarians start knocking at the gate, and that's Kali. Kali is the barbarian at the gate. She is the raw force of nature that reminds everyone that if we become too civilized, we will be crushed. Now, there were cultists in India who recognized the fact that civilization had become far too civilized and the Brahmanic culture had specifically become far too civilized, far too spiritual. Not enough connection to imminence, not enough connection to the blood. And so we have the formation of the Kalikula. Now, the Kalikula is a cult of Kali worshipers. Kali Kula translates to children of Kali. And within the Kali Kula, you have an absolute rejection of Brahmanic society. What does that mean? Well, in India, at the time of the major push towards decadence, we see that there's an intense focus on spirit over the blood. And this comes from the Brahman caste. The Brahmins gained so much power, they felt that they did not need to maintain a connection to the shudra, let alone the outcasts of society. So they did not really focus much on cultivating a strong connection with the common people, the common folk, the farmers, the people who till the land. Now, if you reject your connection to the common folk, to the farmers, what you're really doing is you're rejecting your mother. Esoterically speaking, you're saying that I don't care where my food comes from. I don't care where the building materials that created my palace comes from. These people mean nothing to me. They're below me. Of course, in a true Aryan caste system, every caste is of equal value. And every caste demands respect and deserves respect in order to keep society healthy. So if you forget about the common people as a ruler, what you're doing is you're throwing away the balance between the sun and the moon. You're throwing away the balance between the father and the mother. And this is what happened in India and so many other civilizations. And. And so when this happened, well, there was a mixing of Dravidian and original Indo Aryan stock. Because if nobody is cultivating this healthy caste system, this healthy connection to the blood, there's no reason for any of the people in the Shudra caste to uphold the blood. They themselves become disconnected from the blood because the cult that would have recognized their value and. And would have recognized their dignity is gone. That cult no longer recognizes their value. That cult no longer recognizes their dignity. So what happens? What happens in this situation? Well, the mother comes back with a vengeance, and that is the Kalikula and other cults that uphold the goddess. This is the preservation of the mother within the practice. So the mother is the blood. And if you have no connection to this, you start to rot from your foundations. And that's what leads to the destruction of a civilization. So these cults are formed like the Kalikula, many other cults. And when these cults are formed, what they're doing is they're holding on to the essence of the mother. They're keeping it, they're preserving it for the time when we have a revolution. Now, we haven't experienced that revolution from a wide perspective, but there have been small revolutions, and there have been formations of these little pockets, little expressions of Kali, of mother worship. And that's what the Shakta tradition is, and that's what the Tantric tradition is. It is a revolutionary tradition that seeks to create balance, create unification between the divine masculine and divine feminine, both within the self and outside of the self. And the only way that we can do this is to recognize the fact that there is value in the divine feminine. There is value in the blood, in the individuated expression of the self. Most yoga schools are not teaching this. Most yoga schools are of the opinion that you should dissolve into Shiva or whatever other expression of divine masculinity. You choose. There are those who believe you should dissolve into Odin, there are those who believe you should dissolve into Yahweh, whatever. But that is the predominant belief, spiritual belief, of the present order. But Tantra is in rebellion. And Kali is a very important aspect of that rebellion because she is a feral, primal expression of barbarism that we can tap into in order to empower ourselves to draw down the moon and become that rising sun. We can become that rising sun in our own life, and we can become that rising sun in society. We can actually unite to become that force in order to create a new balance. This is possible. And so there is a personal revolution and there is a social revolution. And that's all an aspect of Tantra. And we see that in the Kali Kula tradition, in the children of Kali. Now, one of the key features of the Kali Kula tradition is it is anti Brahmanic, meaning that there is a rejection of the authority of the Brahman caste. That's very important. All of this obsession with lineage that you find now, people just focusing so intently on what was your lineage, we need to trace it back nine, 10 people. That is an obsession with the Brahmanical culture, Brahmanical society, and that is decadence. Because what we have here is an attempt to establish some type of authority, very similar to papal authority within the Aryan tradition, within the Indian tradition. So I won't speak of lineage in the same way that someone else would speak of lineage. Lineage to me only matters if it empowers you. And in most cases, it does not empower because it is of this Brahmanical nature. True Tantriks, true worshipers of Kali, true Shakta practitioners, reject lineage. They reject lineage as dogma. They embrace lineage as empowerment. So I will say that I give respect to Satchananda and I give respect to any other practitioner that I would recognize as a guru. I give respect to the traditional witchcraft lineage that I carry, but not in a dogmatic sense. Because if we are to embrace this dogma, we subject ourselves to this Brahmanical authority which does not respect shakti, does not respect the divine feminine, and ultimately is directed towards absorption into this order, this dogmatic order, absorption into the Father. And so if we want to reject that and if we want to be empowered in our rejection of this, we have to find a new source of strength. And Kali is that source of strength. Kali allows us to become the barbarian at the gate who's pushing down the dogma and establishing a strong position. Now, in terms of consciousness, what does Kali represent? Well, let's look at her name. So we have a very interesting. Very interesting etymological aspect to Kali is this word kala. Kala is a root of Kali, and kala means different things depending upon the accent here. Now, Sanskrit is a difficult language, and it's basically a dead language, but there are a lot of instances of etymological confusion which actually carry metaphysical significance. With Kali, we have this word kala, and kala, depending upon the accent, it can mean either time or blackness. Now, very interestingly, remember, Kali developed with this need to reject the Brahmanical authority. And one thing that occurs with the rise of any sort of contemplative, civilized aspect of the social order is an obsession with words. We see this in the Jewish tradition. Everything is obsessed with words and being very clear about the meaning of words. Now, one of the rebellious aspects of Kali is because she represents the uncivilized, the barbarian. There is a willful rejection of clarity in the word. And this aspect of Kali is part of the undermining of Brahmanical authority. So this has manifested intuitively in the tradition. And we can see this in the confusion over kala. Kala, as I said, depending upon the accent, it means either time or blackness. Now, in naming Kali, the cultists who followed her developing confusion because they were operating outside of this brahmanical obsession with the very specific meaning of words. They mix these things up. So Kaali became goddess of time, death and blackness, the black one. And so this is quite interesting because the nature of Kali, which can be accessed through practice and should be accessed through practice, she carries all of these qualities. She is communicating these qualities through confusion, through chaos, and through disorder. Disorder in terms of misunderstanding involving the etymological foundation of her very name. Think about that. Think about the role of Logos in the Jewish tradition. Think about the contractual aspect and words, the legalistic aspect of the Jewish tradition. Okay? Words have to be very clear. You have to have the contract written out just right. Well, within the Kalikula tradition, it's not the case. In fact, you want to bring yourself into a state of wilderness and barbarism, so you would want to willfully misrepresent words. This is what occurs. But Kali's communicating to us through this chaos, through this confusion. So she's representing her nature being associated with time, death. Excuse me, death and blackness. Now, her skin is said to be jet black in most incarnations. There are some incarnations where she has dark blue skin, but in most incarnations, her skin is said to be jet black. And we'll get to the reason for this in just A moment. But all of these aspects, time, death, blackness, they are all associated with the muladhara, with the earth, with the mother. Okay? So time. Time is important because time, we see the passage of time represented by change within the natural world, such as the changing of the seasons or aging that we experience. And this is part of the natural order of things. Shakti, in the form of Kali, is the strong expression of the material. So we see a very strong representation of time being something that we are willing to subject ourselves to. We're willing to subject ourselves to change. Now, time in this sense is simply change. It's not time in the conceptual sense of minutes or hours or anything like that that comes from the mind. This is just change, raw expression of change, which is an important aspect of chaos. Change is adversarial to order. And this is why regimes that are obsessed with political order, totalitarian order, are so terrified of change. Change and progressivism represents death of order. And this is another aspect of Kali, death. So death is something that is experienced as a result of consumption within the material realm. We have expression of creation and destruction. And any action that we take requires destruction. Just think about a wood burning stove, for example. Very simple expression of the harnessing of power and the development of a basic engine. You have fire feeding this machine, and you need to feed raw materials to keep that fire going in the form of wood or coal or whatever you're burning in the stove. Regardless, there is destruction. And when the log burns, that's an aspect of death, all right? And Kali is representing that death. She is representing the destructive aspect. When she comes into being, she is cutting things down, she's consuming, she's burning things away. This is part of the animalistic consumption that she represents. Now, of course, there is a natural creative aspect to Kali because she is of shakti, and Shakti is purely creative. But Kali is an emphasis on the death aspect. And that brings us into a recognition of the Kali Yuga. Now, another interesting etymological phenomenon associated with Kali is the fact that the Kali Yuga refers to the asura Kali. Now, Kali, the Asura is associated with Kali in energetic expression because he represents a very strong expression of the muladhara, very destructive expression of the Muladhara in that he is destroying the brahmanical order by cutting the leg of the bull of Dharma. Now, this expression of Dharma that Kali is rebelling against is the sort of dogmatic expression of Dharma that we find in brahmanical society. So when he is cutting the leg of the bull, this is a very Narrow expression of Dharma. It's the kind of expression of Dharma that you'd find in someone like Prabhupada, where it's a dualistic morality expression of Dharma. Kali is attacking that. Now, Kali is different from Kali, but we find this interesting phenomenon where individuals in the west and in the east who are coming to discover the Yuga cycle, they often pronounce the Kali Yuga as the Kali Yuga. Now, why is this confusion occurring? Well, it's because the Kali Yuga is the strongest expression of. Of divine femininity within the yogic cycle. This is the age where the mother rises to power and is the foundation of consciousness. Now, if you're thinking what could be the most intense expression of divine femininity, it is Kali. But she's not going to represent herself with specificity in a contemplative structure. No, she's going to create chaos. She's going to create disorder. And her very name creates chaos and disorder. And there is no coincidence that there has been this confusion regarding the pronunciation of the Kali Yuga, because just like there was confusion over the pronunciation of Kala and the meaning of kala in the formation of Kali's original cult, now this rebirth of Kali which we are seeing, this growing interest in the cult of Kali, which we see all over the place, we see her iconography all over the place. Now, she is communicating the fact that she is becoming more powerful. She is rising. She's growing in strength, and she's rising as the full moon that we can draw power from. So, interestingly enough, we have, within the Germanic tradition, the age of the wolf, which is associated with the final age where Ragnarok is to occur. And after Ragnarok, we have this rejuvenation. This is an age of death. It's the thimble winter. We have a similar thing in the Indian tradition in the Kali Yuga. And interestingly enough, Kali is associated with canines of all types, but specifically wild dogs. Wild dogs like Fenrir. Fenrir, of course, is, within the Germanic tradition, one of the harbingers of Ragnarok and plays a very important role in Ragnarok. He's a killer of gods and he brings about rejuvenation. Fenrir is the barbarian at the gates, as is Kali. And so we have this interesting connection, this synchronicity, this perennial truth we find in these shared Aryan traditions of the dog, which is a muladhara animal, the wolf, the beast, the canine, representing these jaws that rend and tear and bloody civilization, so that something new can be created in its ashes. Now, I want to speak briefly on two of the primary myths of Kali which help to describe her dharma. So we find these myths in the Devi Mahatmyam, which is a third century text. It's believed to have been written around the third century ce. And in this text we find the first really formal written expression of Kali, of the cult of Kali. And so there are very important myths involving Kali within this text. So we have first the myth of the Asura, Shumha and Nishuma. And these Asura are very destructive, very powerful. And so Parvati. Parvati is called upon to combat these Asura. Now, it's important to understand that Parvati is the consort of Shiva. So she's the counterpart to Shiva, Shiva representing the Sahasra, the crown, and Parvati representing the Muladhara, the root, the blood. Now, Parvati is an incarnation of Shakti, okay? And I've developed this way of conceptualizing the conscious nature of a given thing by stacking in my mind, or I can write it out, but stacking blocks of colors that represent specific states of consciousness. And then whatever stack you create, this is sort of like the code of consciousness of a given thing. So if we really want to understand the nature of Kali in terms of her consciousness, we need to draw our awareness towards her root. Now, of course, let me make clear that the way that you perceive the consciousness, the code of consciousness of a given thing, is dependent upon the perspective that you take, specifically the perspective of origin. So if you choose to recognize Shakti as the origin of. Of Kali, then we've placed the foundational block as Shakti. And Shakti is the muladhara in consciousness, pure expression of divine femininity, the muladhara. So we would have a red block placed at the foundation of this code. Then we have Parvati being an incarnation of Shakti. So what do we have here? We have another red block stacked upon the foundational red block. So think of this as twofold expression of the muladhara, very strong, deep expression of muladhara consciousness. You're getting into more intense expressions of the Muladhara in terms of refining this aspect. Now, within this myth of the combating of the Asura, Parvati must assume a form of barbarism in order to achieve victory. And so it is said that she sheds her skin. And from this shedding, we have Kashiki. Now, Kashiki is this goddess of triumph, of victory. She is this glorious victor. And in her triumph, she is represented as being of fair skin, very fair skin, almost Translucent. And she is created when Parvati splits herself off. So we have this fair skinned Kashiki. And Kashiki, she is of a very transcendent nature and she represents civilization, civility. And of course she is fragile. So she is kept aside and she draws the attention of the Asura who want to claim her. Now, who is going to defend her? Well, when Parvati sheds her skin and sheds this, this white, translucent aspect, her skin grows black, dark like tar and she takes the name Kali. Now think of this. We have with Kashiki we have the Muladhara, the Muladhara and the Sahasra. So we have red, red, violet, okay? And that gives you a sort of code of consciousness for that deity. If of course, you draw your awareness to Shakti as the foundation. With Kali, we have something different. We have red, red and then another red. We have the threefold expression of blood here with Kali, the threefold red one. Very powerful, very intense animalistic expression of the muladhara concentrated with Kali. And so Kali, representing the uncivilized barbarian aspect, she possesses this raw fury. And in this fury she is able to destroy the Asura. And this is what she's known for. She is known for this death dealing, this destructive animalistic nature which is shown probably in its rawest form in her battle with Raktabija. So Raktabija is an Asura who is granted a boon that anytime he is cut and he bleeds, a clone of Raktabija is formed. So this makes him basically undefeatable because every time these armies go to fight him, they just bolster his forces and he just keeps multiplying and multiplying and he rules as a tyrant over the earth. And so the gods, they cannot defeat him. They don't know what to do. So they call upon. They call upon Parvati for help and she manifests as Kali or they call upon Durga and she manifests as Kali. And in this ferocious manifestation of Shakti, in this threefold manifestation of the blood, we have here the absolute destructive power of the goddess. And she begins to cut down Raktabiji. Well, when she's cutting down the sasura, she sees that his blood is spilling upon the ground. So what does she do? She does this barbaric thing. She begins to consume the blood. She sticks out her tongue, she consumes the blood, she drinks all of the blood and so she burns up this blood in her belly and Raktabiji is destroyed. And she wears his head, his heads as a garland around her neck. So when you see this iconography of Kali, and she has all of these repeating heads. It's Raktabiji's head. She's holding his head in her hand in victory. Now she becomes so animalistic in this expression of barbarism that she begins to cut down the very people that called her to the earth, the people that sought her salvation. And so, in order to calm her, the gods call upon Shiva, and Shiva lays upon the earth. And when Kali stands on his chest, she recognizes her lover. And. And then she calms herself and she's placed within a container. So this we have here once again, the revolution of the divine feminine and the destruction of the adversarial force as represented by Raktavija here. And then after this bloodlust, we have the reunification of the divine feminine and the divine masculine in the embrace of Kali and Shiva. And so this is the age that we are working towards now. This is the age that we are working towards within ourselves, overcoming this decadence that forms within us and recognizing unification. Whether we're experiencing decadence in the father or the mother, regardless, we're trying to achieve balanced unification towards our dharmic expression. And so we can do this by drawing upon the force of Kali by her tamasic nature, her ability to consume blood, to break taboo, to break with these brahmanical traditions that would keep us from accessing our greatest power. And that is the great gift that she offers us. Now, as I said earlier, we exist in an age where we see this strange embrace of this solar masculinity as being the source of liberation, and it is not the source of liberation. This sort of embrace of solar masculinity is just further submission to this sort of brahmanic order that prevents us from accessing any sort of balanced unification with Kali, with Shakti. We have to recognize the source of that decadence and reject it. It is not going to bring us ultimate victory, either on a personal level or a social level. So we must draw ourselves towards the dark drums in the jungle of Kali, those dark, barbarous sides of ourselves that civilization would ask us to shun. But if we can embrace those things strongly and if we can recognize this growing cult of Kali as a potential to access the rising sun within us and draw down power from the moon, then we can know the secrets of Kali and we can gain her favor, her power, her love and beauty.