# The Right Hand Path Part 2 - Mooladhara

Everybody has got a mother. This is a rule of the cosmos. We all have a mommy. And it's not just. It's not just our biological mother, right? Our immediate biological mother. We also have a cosmic mother. And there are many different names for this cosmic mother. In the Indian tradition, we call her Shakti. And in the Greek tradition, we call her Gaia. In the Roman tradition, we call her Terah. She's gone by many different names. And there have been many different manifestations of this one core principle, and that is the divine feminine. And we also have a mother within, within the self. And the mother within the self is the Muladhara. The Muladhara is the chakra of individuation. And it is the contrasting point to its adversarial state of consciousness, which is the Sahashara. And the Sahashra is the chakra of unification. Also, the Sahashra is the chakra of the Father, the divine masculine. Now, in order to understand the place of the Muladhara within Kundalini Yoga, you have to understand something about the present age, the present Yuga. We live in the Kali Yuga. And the Kali Yuga is the stage right before the Satya Yuga and right after the Dvapara Yuga. And within the Kali Yuga, there is a strong emphasis on the body. Because as you advance through the Yugas, you begin in the Satya Yuga, where the root of consciousness is the spirit. And as you advance through the Yugas, you descend from the spirit to the mind in the Treta Yuga to the inner fire in the Draupara Yuga. And finally, when you reach the Kali Yuga, the body, the earth, the physical material, becomes the foundation of consciousness. That's where we're at, the Kali Yuga, flesh and blood as the foundation of experience. Now, it's not just the Yuga cycle that you need to consider. There is also a greater cycle of time above the Yugas, and that is defined in this school as two master ages. You have the Master Age of Shiva, which is the contemplative master age, and the Master Age of Shakti, which is the active master age. And we are living in the final state of the Age of Shakti. What does that mean for our experience of consciousness? It means that the mother, the divine feminine, is the dominant force within the cosmos. In terms of the originating position of consciousness, the foundational element, we live within an active dimension. And within this active dimension, it is the mother, the mothering energy, which serves as our first introduction to life. So if you examine the Pyramid of the Self within the Kali Yuga, the base of the pyramid is the blood body, the physical body, material, raw material, nature. And so if you're going to develop your consciousness, if you're going to expand beyond the base expression of consciousness within the present age, you have to have a solid foundation. If you don't have a solid foundation for the pyramid of the Self, everything will crumble to the ground. And that is why all of these yoga schools, all of these esoteric schools that emphasize theory and reading and meditating all day long are totally full of fucking shit. Because if you do this, if you sit and read evil and Ganon and all of these jackasses all day long, all you're ever going to get is overstimulation of the mind. You will never establish the firm foundation that you need in the body in order to advance to the higher states. So it's very important, very important that any guru who teaches yoga focuses on the body and experience Hatha Yoga as the foundation. And if you're going to practice kundalini, it has to be done by first establishing awareness of the body. And this body awareness is the first step in achieving mastery of the self. So what does that look like for Kundalini Yoga in this school? Once the yogin has established a baseline understanding of the practice and has established openness to the pranic channels that are required in order to root into the muladhara, this is when the formal process of kundalini begins. And it begins with a meditative exercise where the yogin is placed into the muladhara. This is a form of meditation that is based upon Yoga Nidra that I pioneered. And so this school is the only school that offers at this time, although that will change in the future. This school is the only school that offers rooting into a state of consciousness in order to fully explore that state of consciousness as part of the kundalini process. So once the yogin has accessed the beginning of the Kriya state, and once the yogin is aware of unification through their pranayama practice in Pranayama Nadi Shodhana, this is the point at which the muladhara is accessed. The yogin is placed into the muladhara either by a teacher, or they can place themselves into the muladhara through various meditative techniques based upon what has been pioneered in this school. And then once this rooted state is achieved, that is when the challenge begins. Now, before we proceed to a discussion of the specifics of kundalini within the muladhara, we need to talk about why it is necessary to root the self in a specific state of consciousness. Essentially, when you root yourself in a state of consciousness, what you are doing is you are accessing a pure expression of that element of the self. And the Muladhara is alchemically associated with Earth. So if you want to fully. Excuse me, if you want to fully understand the expression of earth within the self, you have to fully embrace the Muladhara. You can't just read about it, you can't just watch videos about it. You have to actually experience that state of consciousness for yourself. Because once the body starts to direct prana towards the Muladhara, the strengths that are present within that state of consciousness will manifest as well as all of the points of weakness. And so that is why it is necessary to actually root the magician in that specific state of consciousness. Once you have achieved rootedness in this state, what you do is you begin to explore all of the various aspects of that state of consciousness. And you do that by examining specific elements of that state of consciousness in practice. The practice is very important because like I said, if you're just reading about that state of consciousness, if you're just watching videos about that state of consciousness, you're not going to experience it firsthand. And a lack of experience in this way will lead to confusion regarding the actual nature of that state of consciousness. Because for most people, if you examine, for example, a text on the Muladhara or the Manipura or the Svadistana, you're going to read about certain traits that are associated with that specific state of consciousness. And while it is helpful to examine these specific traits, there is a deeper meaning to be accessed in actually experiencing the energetic expression. So, for example, with the Vishuddhi, you can read about how the Vishuddhi is a state of the mind, of the intellect. And within the expression of the intellect, there are certain behavioral traits that are associated with the mind. And those might include someone who reads a lot or someone who is very introspective, is not a very social person. And so if somebody possesses those individual personality traits, you might assume that they are rooted in the Vishuddhi or they are representing Vishuddhi consciousness. But this is not necessarily so, because these personality traits that manifest can also manifest in other states of consciousness. But the way in which they manifest is different. It's altered. It's specific to the energetic expression of that chakra. So, for example, when someone in the Muladhara expresses anger, there is a grounding element to the anger. There is an earthiness to the anger. When someone in the muladhara expresses sexuality, once again, there is a grounded aspect to it. There is a deep connection to the earth, the soil, the mother, the blood in this expression. Now, someone in the vishuddhi can also express anger. They can be a very angry person, but their anger comes from a different place. It's airy, it's cool. There is a pointedness to it. And the only way that you can really understand the energetic expression of these things is if you experience them firsthand. And that is why it is so important to enter into altered states of consciousness in a kundalini practice. Okay, now let's talk about the specific aspects of the muladhara that we touch upon whenever we start to practice kundalini in the right hand path. So for the muladhara, when you enter into this state, because this is a right hand path manifestation of the muladhara, there is a tendency for the manifestation of this state of consciousness to lead to a sudden and drastic shift towards maintaining or gaining security in the body. The muladhara is directly related to security. It's related to all of your primitive needs, your primitive desires. So shelter, food, sex, security, all of these things are aspects of the muladhara in a primitive sense. Like I said, you can express sexuality or security in other states. But when we're talking about the muladhara, we're talking about the foundational elements of these things. We're talking about, for instance, with sexuality, the primal drive to procreate, or the primal drive to have sex for pleasure or some type of physical sensation. These aspects of sexuality that are involuntary aspects of the self, your natural sex drive, that is a muladhara aspect of sexuality. And then you have, for example, the relationship to food. This is the primal consumptive drive in a physical sense. Consumption can exist at other states of consciousness as well. Like, for example, in the vishuddhi, there is a consumptive element of ideas taking information and processing it and collecting more and more information. This is a consumptive aspect as well. But it is colored by the vishuddhi. And this is why rooted consciousness is not a personality test. Because aspects of personality like a consumptive drive or the expression of consumption, consistent expression of this, this does not necessarily mean that the person is muladhara. They can express their consumption from different states of consciousness. But let's focus again on how these elements are presented within the muladhara, so that when you are practicing right hand path kundalini, you know what to look for with your experience. You know how to contextualize the experience, and you know how to see manifestations of this aspect of muladhara consciousness in other people, works of art, other things that you find in the cosmos. So we have with the muladhara this overlaying, earthy aspect, and there is the fundamental quality of individuation. So what is the source of individuation in a physical sense, within our present dimension of consciousness? It is the blood. The blood is the foundation. And with the blood as the foundation, you have the development of unique features of individuals. And these unique, excuse me, these unique features of individuals are inherited. So this is where the concept of blood karma comes into play and the importance of the blood in Muladhara magic. The blood is the core pranic channel of the muladhara. And so when the yogin begins their muladhara practice and they are establishing a solid foundation in the body, it is important that the blood is purified and that the yogin is made aware of the blood. The ascetic practices that we engage in as part of the right hand path offer a means of purifying the blood, removing all of those poisons from the body that may interfere with the experience, altered states of consciousness. And that is why it is so important to dedicate yourself seriously to your ascetic practices when you are on the right hand path. If you consume alcohol, if you consume caffeine, excess sugar, things of that nature, you're going to muddy up the blood, the pranic channel, which is the foundation of consciousness in the present age. And this is going to have an influence on the entire practice. So purity is important. Now, one aspect of the muladhara that is missing in the west in modernity is a clear recognition of race as a reality. If you are to affirm the physical reality of race within modernity, you have committed a great sin. And why is this? Well, it's because we live in a paradigm that is under the control of the Divine Masculine. How can that be? Since the foundation of consciousness is Shakti and we live in the age of Shakti, So the Divine Feminine should reign, right? Well, on the macro scale, the Divine Feminine does reign, but there are other cycles to consider. And one such cycle is the shift between what we have labeled Aryan culture and Abrahamic culture or Jewish culture. Now, these two cultural expressions, they have manifested in the past and they will manifest in the future under different names. But the energetic expression is very similar. You have one culture, Aryan culture, which begins in the womb at the manipura and there is a very intense connection to the mother within this culture, an allegiance between the fire and the blood. Those are two very important aspects in the Aryan expression of culture. But then on the other side, you have what we now call Jewish culture, which has given birth to Judaism, Islam, Christianity. And on that side of the equation, you have the mind, the word, the logos, as the foundation. And you have a strong allegiance between the mind and the spirit. And this is elevation of the Father. We see this in the cult of the Father within Christianity. And within this cult, the mother is rejected entirely. Shakti is bound. Shakti has a veil placed over her head. Shakti is in utter submission or is destroyed in pursuit of the patriarchy that continues for eternity without usurpation. So these conditions of this dying solar patriarchy that refuses to take its last breath, this is what has led to the rejection of the reality of the blood. Because the emphasis is placed upon the mind and the spirit, the blood is rejected. So kundalini is a radical rejection when it's performed properly. It is a radical rejection of the cult of the Father. It is a radical rejection of the failure of modernity to recognize race. Now, does that mean that kundalini is inherently associated with racial political movements like National Socialism or the Black Panther Party? No, that is not what it means. Put simply, all that is recognized by true kundalini yoga is the blood. As the foundation. In our present age and reaching the point of transcendence, overcoming duality, we recognize that neither the spirit nor the blood is inherently superior. So we recognize value in both the individuated aspect of the blood and the unifying aspect of the spirit. And this is something that cannot be recognized by the system. Because all of the tropes surrounding the issue of race, all of these straw men that are intentionally created by the system in order to sever the connection between man and shakti, all of these things are destroyed by the nuance of consciousness. Because if you understand consciousness, you will not fall prey to the type of vulgar racism which does nothing for the advancement of understanding of individuated beauty as well as the unifying spirit that exists within the cosmos. All you can do by embracing that approach of vulgar racism is to sever yourself from the unifying aspect. And all that you do whenever you embrace the spirit and reject the blood, is sever yourself from differentiation, from that which makes you unique, from your very foundational expression of life. And so it's no wonder why the left, the political left, seems to elevate disability a virtue it is because fundamentally, these people cannot relate in a healthy manner to the blood. And it's no wonder why so many racial political movements fall to a type of materialism that reduces everything to a point of consumption of the self, because there is a failure to recognize the unifying aspect of spirit. And so the standards continue to become more and more extreme in a great purity spiral, until no blood can be recognized as the good blood. First, you have, for example, in the European racial political movements, this idea that, okay, Europeans are superior, but now it's not enough to just be European, then you have to be Germanic. Well, then it's not enough to be Germanic. Now you have to be Scandinavian. Now you have to be Norwegian. Now you have to be from my family. Now you have to be me. Now no one fits the standard but the one individual. And that is the trap of getting stuck in the purity spiral of the blood. So there is a dissolving element at both sides of the equation. You can dissolve into the muladhara just as easily as you can dissolve into the sahasra. So it is important to be aware of that fact. Now, just because there is potential to dissolve into the blood does not mean that you should fail to develop pride in the blood. Because recognition of the beauty that you possess within your individuated physical form is absolutely essential in the path to unification. You need to understand what you have inherited, what karma has been brought to you by your ancestors. And so one exercise that is valuable when you are practicing muladhara kundalini is to meditate upon the nature of the blood. What are your roots? Where did your family come from? What gods did your ancestors worship? Something that needs to be understood about the gods in mythology is that they are both of the spirit and of the body. Thor did not always exist. He was born. Now, his essence has always existed, his potentiality has always existed. But his embodied form, with the name Thor, with the Mjolnir, this incarnation was given life by the Scandinavian people, by the Norse. And so gods are born of the blood, but they are drawn down from the spirit. There is a strong tie between the blood of a given people and the gods of their ancestors. And so when you are working with a specific God or a specific pantheon, when you are in the beginning of your training as a magician, you will do well to select those gods that have a close relationship to your blood, to your family line, because there is something in your individuated being that stands as an echo of the heroes of the past, of the myth that they formed and you can tap into that expression of the gods that exist within you. You can find the faces of the gods and your ancestors by looking within and also by looking into a mirror, viewing your physical features, looking into your eyes, listening to the sound of your voice, becoming aware of the movement of your body, how your body reacts to the elements. For example, if you are an African man and you take a trip to the North Pole, your body is going to react to the extreme cold with much greater sensitivity than a man who was born as a Northern European. And you have to be aware of the realities of your biology, because if you fail to recognize the realities of your biology, you cannot even begin to practice Kundalini. There is no anti racist yogi. If you are an anti racist yogi, you are not practicing yoga. And no, I am not advocating for hating people of other races. What I am advocating for is a recognition of race as a reality. And if you recognize race as a reality, you are a racist. And everyone is a racist if they're being honest with themselves. But of course, very few people are capable of, of applying that level of honesty. Now, one thing that we must mention is the proper definition of race, because this is something that has been very confused in modernity. What is race? Well, race is both a very solid expression and a nebulous expression depending upon your point of perception. And just because the nature of race changes based upon your point of perception does not mean that it is not real. Race is real. But the energetic expression of race does change depending upon your perspective. So, for example, we have the individuated expression of the body in the blood that is your race. And race exists on an individual level. I am the race of Schuyler Miller. Now, race is extended to your family. Your family is a race. So I'm from the family Miller, the Miller clan, the Miller race. Right. And everyone within my family is part of my race, my biological family. Well, that family has further relations. I have my immediate family, I have my extended family, and then I have my extended family beyond that. And each classification of family is a new layer of race. The further you get away from the individuated expression of race, the fewer similarities you have with the other individuals in the racial category. So if you extend far out, you'll find that I am of the Scandinavian race. And then if you extend out beyond that, you find that I am part of the European race. And then if you extend beyond that, you'll find that I am part of the human race. Now, once we get to the level of the Human race. The differences between myself and other members of that race are immense. I'm talking skin color, the way that certain foods affect my biology, the way that certain environments affect my biology. The gods that the people within the human race worship, there is all of this differentiation that is present at this level. But the only means by which we can assess the differences between individuals is through first recognizing what is the individual race. How is your physical body formed? Because once you understand the formation of your physical body, which is the hard line expression of race, there is no nebulous element to the individuated expression of race. It is solidified. And of course, things become more and more nebulous as you advance away from the individuated expression. But once you have that individuated understanding of the body, then you can begin to compare yourself to others. And in comparison, you begin to recognize differentiation. And that's the next step up beyond the muladhara. But first, we begin just by understanding the self, the blood. Now, why is it that race becomes more of an abstract concept as you move further away from the individuated expression? Well, the reason why is because as you move further away from the individual, you're getting closer and closer to the monistic point, which is the point of unification, the point of God consciousness. And this is the realm of abstraction. In fact, the Ajna is the point of abstraction just before you reach the Sahashra, where you achieve unification. And like I said, once you escape the prison of duality, you recognize the absurdity of seeing either the spirit or the material body as being inherently superior. And so the conclusion, the only conclusion that can be taken is that race must be affirmed, just as the spirit must be affirmed. And so racism, as much as certain people would love to eliminate it entirely from the earth, is a fundamental reality of the cosmos. Now, what are the means by which you can begin to explore your individuated race? Like I said, you can look into the past. You can trace your family line. Observing your lineage is important because it reveals certain things about how consciousness has manifested throughout the years in your family line. And you can start to see why you are the way you are now. Of course, the blood isn't everything, but it is one of the major elements of the self. And so recognition of this line of conscious development, this line of karma through your family, can give you a great key to unlocking understanding. We all inherit a family karma, and for the most part, the family karma that we inherit is challenging. Yeah, we're given a lot of strength from our family line. But most of us have inherited bad karma from bad decisions made by our families because very few of us have been born into tantric yoga lineages. And even those individuals who take such a birth are faced with their own challenges. So there's always challenges. And your goal as a magician is to understand those challenges, recognize those challenges, and burn the karma that you have inherited. Now, what else can you do? Well, you can begin to commune with the gods of your ancestors. This is very important because, like I said, your ancestors gave birth to those gods. And so there are elements of consciousness. There are dharmic elements within those gods that are within you. And by practicing bhakti with those gods, you can start to uncover Thor within the self, Odin within the self. Once you do this, you unlock pathways to power that are occulted, they are concealed, but they exist within myth. Myth of the blood. Physical practice is absolutely essential in developing body awareness. Asana practice is one means of beginning to explore the relationship between the body and the cosmos. It is said in tantra that the spine is the pillar of the universe. It is the center of the cosmos. Now, why would we define the spine as the center of the universe or the cosmos or anything? Well, because the nervous system runs down. The spine spreads out through your body. And it is through the nervous system that in this present age, you are able to explore the cosmos. If not for the spine, if not for the nervous system, you would have no means of assessing the nature of anything. Anything in your immediate environment, anything in the solar system, anything in the entire universe, in the entire cosmos, could not be assessed without that physical foundation. And that is why there is such a strong emphasis on the physical health of the spine in yoga, because you are preserving the pillar of the cosmos by preserving the health of the spine. Next time you practice your asanas, think of that. Think of the fact that your bridge to experiencing all of the beauty within the cosmos, it exists within your body. It is the spine. And when you practice asana, you are in communion with the very core of existence. And the improvement of the health of the spine leads to passive development of meditation. Because when your spine is healthy, when you have taken action to interact with the spine, you have purified the nervous system, you have purified the pathways of understanding. And through this purification, you now enjoy the benefits of existing at a heightened level of awareness. Because awareness of the body is not just awareness of the blood, it's awareness of everything. As above, so below. That which is within is without. This is why asana is so important. Because each of the postures in asana corresponds to a lesson, to a point of meaning within the cosmos. For example, Kalyasana. Kalyasana is a tamasic posture. It is of a tamas nature. And the tamas guna is associated with the Muladhara and the Svadistana. Now, kalyasana is specifically associated with the muladhara. It is the asana of Mahakali, Mahakali, the black son of the Muladhara. Within this school, Mahakali is of Muladhara consciousness. She is worshipped in puja within India with the consumption of alcohol. Because alcohol is a drug that puts you in a state of muladhara consciousness. If you drink enough alcohol, you will shift to the muladhara. Now, when you perform kalyasana, what you're doing is you're shifting your weight consciously with awareness, shifting your weight down to the lower half of your body. You are shifting your weight to your legs and the seat of the muladhara on the body, which is the perineum. You're bringing all that weight down. And when you do this, you're connecting to that which is tamas. Now, you can understand a lot about the muladhara just by feeling the tamas nature in the body. When you take a deep breath and you exhale and you feel all of the weight shift down into your feet, and you feel how solid you become. This is the earth nature of Thomas. This is the earth nature of the muladhara. This is the elephant, the beast that cannot be moved. And so there are certain practices, such as within kalari or karate, where you are accessing that pranic channel of the muladhara. You are establishing a firm base, a low center of gravity in the body, so that you can be solid, you can be like a rock, you can be like stone, immovable. And if you think about the nature of stone, if you think about the nature of the earth, and you apply it to all aspects experience, and I mean every aspect, everything that you experience while you're in the Muladhara is understood through stone, through the earth, through that which is heavy, that which carries weight, that which takes up space. If you can understand that, then you can start to unfold all of the mysteries of the muladhara. Now, meditation on the blood is a practice that is recommended in this school. Whenever you're practicing Muladhara kundalini, we utilize the blood prana meditation, which is a meditative technique that was pioneered in this school. With the blood prana meditation, you focus on the circulatory system and you begin to map it out. One of the principles of meditative exercise is that exposure to a given element creates a point of awareness within the body where prana is then directed towards that element. So, for example, if you meditate on the element of fire, energy will be directed to the gut, to inner fire. If you meditate on the earth, if you ground yourself, if you take off your shoes, take off your socks, walk, walk on the bare earth, you. You can begin to ground yourself into the earth. Exposure to these elements, awareness of these elements roots you deeper into that state. And so if you are bringing your awareness to the circulatory system, to the blood in the blood prana meditation, you are going to increase the intensity of the experience in the muladhara. Also, massage, like in the Pathways of Eros, this method helps to ground you. It helps to bring you out of the contemplative state into the active state, drawing all of your awareness into the blood body. This is all part of the process of exploring the muladhara, and you can incorporate all of these practices into your daily rituals. Now, there are many, many more aspects of the muladhara that can be explored. Many different rituals, and I'm not going to discuss all of them tonight because that would take. Well, that would take years to discuss all of the potential ritual work that you can do in the muladhara. But you have a very specific goal when you're practicing right hand path kundalini in the muladhara, and that is identifying the maladjustments and integrating the strengths. Now, there are many different maladjustments that can manifest in the muladhara. And if you think about the element of earth and the blood and the relationship with family and unification, you can begin to extrapolate some of the potential maladjustments that may occur. Also, you can focus on one core poison that is associated with the muladhara, and that is the poison of greed. Ultimately, every maladjustment, every single one that manifests within the muladhara can be traced back to that one essential poison of greed. So if you possess this awareness that the maladjustments in anger, consumptive behavior, sadness, confusion, whatever maladjustment may occur, all of these things are related somehow to greed. And if you know this, you can begin to work through all of these maladjustments. And once you have achieved that, once you have overcome these maladjustments and you can exist peacefully, you can exist in a state of meditation within the muladhara. That's when you know that you have gained body awareness and you are ready to move on. Advance up the mountain and enter into the Svadistana.