# rtt lecture - Divine Masculine Feminine Clarified

Okay, so one of the more confused things, and there's a lot of confusion surrounding Tantra specifically, but on a broader scope, there is much confusion surrounding the energetic nature of things, just anything in general, because people have been divorced from the holistic expression of consciousness. And for most of human history, the vast majority of people have not had access to a deeply holistic understanding of consciousness. Most people have had to rely upon the presentation of consciousness from the perspective of tastemakers. Now, these taste makers have been found. In various locations within the social strata. You have the political tastemakers, economic, general, social taste makers, academic tastemakers. And what these individuals do is they. Present. In some digestible format to the masses, an idea of what a specific thing should be. And most people lacking the capacity to read consciousness beyond the surface element that is provided to them by a tastemaker. Most people find it incredibly difficult. To access any sort of independent conclusion regarding the nature of things. And so that is why it is so easy for confusion to develop in society regarding any topic. I mean, just take, for example, the meaning of liberalism or conservatism in the political sphere. These words have come to mean different things over many, many decades. And the meaning of these words has even been inverted at times. And the meaning of these words differs depending upon what region of the world you're in. And just like anything else, the vast majority of people develop their idea of liberalism or conservatism based upon tastemakers. So what does this have to do with masculinity and femininity? Well, these concepts, the masculine and the feminine, they are also defined by taste makers in terms of mass consumption of these concepts and in the integration of these concepts into society and into the formation of individuated expressions of consciousness. Now, what the tastemakers say about a. Given concept. We must divorce this from the essential, energetic expression of that thing. Now, there is some complexity to this, because in the non dualistic model of. The cosmos, there is the potential for. Any sort of discernible differentiation between these things to disappear completely. And in this disappearance, we have now a great relativism. But if you are to exist within the natural order of things, if you. Are to exist within the subtle order. Of things, within the age of Shakti, there is a certain dharma to this age. And the same can be said for the age of Shiva. Whatever age you find yourself living within. Whatever age your consciousness expresses itself within, there is a dharma of that age. And so when we are working with a specific element of the cosmos, whatever it is, we have to consider what is the dharma of the age. Because the Dharma of the age defines. How certain things manifest. And you have a choice to make. Do you choose to live in alignment with the Dharma of the age, or do you choose to rebel against the. Dharma of the age? Now. We must distinguish between the Dharma. Of the age and the individuated Dharma. You may possess a Dharma that is in opposition to the present age if the present age is defined by divine femininity, the Goddess. But your individuated expression of Dharma is in alignment with the divine masculine or the monistic point or advancement towards dissolution into oneness. If that is your Dharma, then it is natural for you to rebel against. The present age, the present structure. And there are traditions that exist on this planet right now that are dharmically opposed to the present age. They are dharmically opposed to divine femininity as the foundation for order and structure. Now, I just said that divine femininity could be the foundation for order and structure, but it is not the origin point of order and structure. See, we have to make a distinction. The origin point of order is the divine masculine. In fact, order is the purest expression of divine masculinity. When we talk about that which is masculine in a distilled essence, we're talking about the orderly things of the cosmos. And then we have, in contrast to this, the divine feminine, which is, in its purest form, defined by chaos, liberation. Now, how can divine femininity be the foundation of order? Well. Everything that exists within the present. Age is filtered through Shakti. Shakti is the overarching force that defines the foundation of consciousness. And the order that we experience is built upon her foundation. So in this age, Shiva rides upon the foundation of Shakti. And this is why the divine masculine. In our present age is able to manifest as a differentiated form. Now let's narrow our definition of Shakti and Shiva so that we can understand how divine femininity and divine masculinity may manifest in many different forms and how this manifestation contrasts with the definitions of the feminine and the masculine that are given by contemporary taste makers. Shakti is the divine mother in the Indian tradition. And there are many different forms of shakti. And in other traditions, there are divine mother figures that fulfill the role of Shakti. Shakti is the blood. She is the raw material. She is the physical form. And she rins, she tears, she breaks things into smaller pieces so that you have more variety, far more varied expression. But she also has the potential to dissolve. Because. If one draws their awareness totally towards Shakti, they are advancing towards the purest expression of race being the individual. And the individual possessing total awareness of just race in its purest sense becomes its own expression with no awareness of anything outside of itself. And this is dissolution. In the shakti. Shiva represents the monistic point, oneness, the spirit. And of course, if you advance towards the spirit in its purest expression, which is unifying all things, you lose your individuated expression and you dissolve. So we are always existing between these two points. Shakti, the divine feminine, and shiva, the divine masculine. And because we exist as individuated beings, because we have not dissolved, we know that we possess a balance of these two forces within us. If we were purely feminine, we would. Dissolve into the blood. And if we were purely masculine, we would dissolve into the spirit. So we have a balance of these two things. But the balance of these two things is dependent upon the individual. There are some individuals who possess far more shakti and others who possess far more shiva. Now, the way to identify your natural balance is through self exploration. But you have to be able to. Distinguish between what is truly feminine and what is truly masculine. So if we know that shakti represents disorder, chaos, then we know that all things which are outside of reason, all. Things that lack a foundation in reason. Things that exist in a liberated form, these are things of shakti. These are active things. We contrast the active world of shakti with the contemplative world of shiva. When you cross into the threshold of. The mind, you are reaching the foundation of that which is contemplative, which is the foundation of. Of reason. Reason is the grounding force for the. Contemplative perspective, for contemplative consciousness. For shakti, the grounding point is the blood. So we have the blood contrasted with the mind. We have the chaos, the pure chaos of nature that experiences order when it interacts with shiva. The natural world in its purest expression is chaotic. It is active. But of course, as I said, all things that possess individuated expression of consciousness, all things that have not dissolved do possess some balance between these two forces. And the closer you get to the. Blood, to race, the closer you get to chaos, liberation, the closer you get to shakti and the closer you come to order. That's the closer you get to masculinity. Now, what do we know about the natural world and the material and what is created through differentiation? Well, if you think about the conditions that exist in a state of perfect order, such as what is found in the monistic point, what we see is peace, a complete and total absence of conflict. And the only way that you can. Have a pure expression of peace or the complete absence of conflict is by eliminating all differences between all things. When you eliminate all the differences between all things, you are left with nothingness. And nothingness is masculinity. This is what all masculinity is ultimately leading towards. A total rejection of conflict, a supremely passive position. So when you break that oneness, when you apply the rending force of shakti, you shatter that tranquility, you shatter that peace, and you introduce war. War is of a feminine nature. Of course, there are aspects of order within war, but at its foundation, it is a gift of the Dark Mother. And war is an expression of conflicting dharma, because we exist in a state of differentiation with ultimate contrast, meaning that for the greatest expression of pleasure, there is the greatest expression of pain as a competing potentiality. Because we exist with this, conflict is inevitable. So all things that are conflictual, they come from femininity. Now, the taste makers who have decided for the masses in our contemporary age how to define masculinity, they have made it seem as though that which is masculine is aggressive, warlike. But this is not true. Masculinity seeks peace. Masculinity seeks the abandonment of the body and of differentiation. It is the masculine urge to not fight, to not be in conflict with anything, but ultimately to unify with everything. That is the masculine urge. Now, the feminine urgent is to unify with nothing, to establish the firm position. Of the individual, which is, as I. Said, the purest expression of race, and stand by that foundation, to be unmoving, to fight anything that attempts to uproot that foundation, that is the feminine urge. So why is it that. War has. Been fought primarily by men? Well, there's different reasons for this. First, we have to talk about what is the nature of war. There are different forms of war. There is the modern capitalistic warfare that is defined by the military industrial complex, which lacks the wider spiritual significance of the ancient holy war. So the way that. Femininity or masculinity. Is expressed in the context of warfare is really dependent upon how wars are fought. And what is the purpose of the war. If the war is of a dharmic nature or a yogic nature, or if it is of a economic nature, this has a definite impact on the transformative process of warfare. Let's take, for example, yogic war. So yogic war would be fought with the purpose of achieving some type of yogic transformation, exploring consciousness, advancing towards unification of the self through combat. Yogic war in our Contemporary era does not exist on a massive scale. The only expressions of yogic warfare are. Found in individuals in our present age and small groups which take it upon themselves to re access the perennial tradition of war as a magical process for self transformation. There have been some writers, some philosophers who have explored warfare in this expression, such as Ernst Younger or Yukio Mishima. Both of these men saw conflict as a transformative process whereby you can take your unrefined nature and you can advance towards transcendence. And in finding transcendence, you can then return to the body and test your limits. And war is one way to do that. This is the Kundalini of war. Now, in this instance, if we are talking about yogic warfare, men may utilize. War. As a means of overcoming shakti. The war itself becomes something that you must overcome. You must survive the trials of shakti. You must survive the trials of conflict. That means entering into the space of. Warfare with the intention of preserving the self, not dissolving into bloodlust. The warrior who succeeds in transformation, yogic transformation through warfare, leaves the compulsions of shakti, enters into combat with detachment. This yogic warrior takes an ascetic approach. To the transformative process of war. And by the end, he is able to conquer. He is able to conquer the unrefined shakti within himself and become something more. He's able to test his limits. And it is at this point that he can return to the material world with a new perspective. This is a very healthy and powerful expression of war. It's a way to utilize conflict as a means of creating a stronger man. Creating a new man, a better man. But as I said, this type of warfare is exceedingly rare. Now, most war is fought totally out of compulsion. And there are, of course, individual warriors who do attempt to see combat as a means of expressing holistic consciousness. But these individuals are also quite rare. So men are attracted to war because war offers a means of exploring shakti in a very visceral sense. Women already possess. An inherent connection to. Shakti because women are of shakti and men are of Shiva. Women tend to seek docile practices. They tend to seek practices that allow. Them to come into alignment with the softer, more passive expression of life, because that is the aspect that they must integrate. Now, of course, both man and woman. Are advancing on an ascending path. If they are behaving yogically towards Shiva, towards transcendence. But the focus of this path, the awareness of this path, does tend to differ between men and women. Of course, there are exceptions to this. But for the most part, women, when they seek transcendence, they are focusing on integrating the softer aspect of the practice, while men see their practice as a war, a brutal war that must be waged against the feminine aspect of the self. And this is also expressed in sexuality. Now, another element of the feminine and the masculine that must be described before we discuss the esoteric significance of sexuality in this arena is the receptive and the giving expression. There is great confusion concerning this specific aspect of masculinity and femininity. Most of the taste makers will tell. You that men give and women receive, but this is not the essential nature of these elements. Masculinity is receptive. And femininity is giving. Masculinity is receptive because it is contemplative. It is passive. Think of Shiva laying on the earth so that Kali can stand on his chest. The active expression is a giving expression. The woman gives birth and the man receives the child. Now, the confusion that develops here is in relation to sex, because in sexual, men are penetrating women. And so there is, on the surface, the giving aspect of masculinity and the receiving aspect of femininity. Why is it this way? Well, that's because sex is a yogic practice if the proper intention is placed upon it. And the framework for yoga within sexuality is set by the act itself. Because men, being naturally receptive, when they penetrate the woman, they are connecting with the opposing energy. They are acting as shakti. They are experiencing the shakti aspect, and so they are in communion with the feminine. And the same goes for women. Women in sex are taking a receiving role, which is a masculine role. So we know that sex is extremely yogic in its foundation because it is one of the few practices within nature where this communion with the opposing energy is. Woven into the structure of the act. So, yes, men may perceive sex to be a very active practice because they are craving communion with shakti. And this is where the idea of. Compulsive male sexuality comes in. Because we are all born to unrefined shakti. We are all born of the earth. And being born of the earth, there is a tendency to want to consume. This is an aspect of the muladhara. The consumptive aspect, the mindless consumptive aspect. There is this desire for more experience, more physical experience, of course, lacking the proper point of contrast. This type of compulsive sexuality does not lead to satisfaction. It does not lead to greater beauty or greater pleasure. Because if you are engaged in an activity where you lack a point of contrast, the activity quickly Becomes very dull. And the only thing that keeps you. In the stream of activity is compulsion. Think of a really overweight man who drinks milkshakes every day of his life. If he continues to do this, he's. Going to become numb to the flavor. Of the milkshake, but he will continue. To consume because he is compelled by shakti to consume. He has not made the effort to integrate shiva, to apply his natural masculinity in order to take hold of himself, to take this raw material and shape it into something better, something stronger. That's what occurs with sexuality. Yes, we are all born with sexual compulsion, Just as we are born with any type of compulsion. We are compulsive creatures at birth, but we do not have to remain that way. And if we want to find the greatest pleasure in life and understand fundamentally. The difference between men and women, we have to find the point of contrast. So in finding the point of contrast, men may overcome their compulsive tendency, and women may overcome their compulsive tendency, and they may integrate that which they are lacking. Men can do this through communion with shakti. But when a man is within communion with shakti, he is interacting with a poison. And this poison can overtake him very easily Unless he applies, as I said, a masculine discipline order. In overcoming shakti, women, too, can be overcome by shakti. And so they must seek the masculine in order to gain control of their sexual expression. Women have a natural tendency. Towards order in their sexual expression because they are in communion with shiva in the act of sex. So this is why women tend to be able to take control of their sexual urges with greater ease than men. Although this is changing. And why is this changing? Because confusion regarding sexuality, regarding the nature of that which is masculine and that which is feminine, this confusion is growing all the time. And this confusion is poisoning the way. That people perceive themselves, the way that. They perceive others, the way that they. Perceive sexuality in general. The whole concept of gender, for example, gender studies and the idea that gender is this spectrum, this is a bastardization of the essential cosmic principle of the divine feminine and the divine masculine. As I said, each individual possesses their own individuated balance of masculinity and femininity. And you could say that's a spectrum technically, but you'd be wrong, because it's not really a spectrum. Those things, the masculine and the feminine. Exist as pure expressions, but they balance one another out. And in balancing one another out, they give birth to a specific expression of this thing. There are women that possess extremely masculine energy. Women who are very much interested in order, in passive expression, in contemplation. Intellectual women, highly spiritual women. These women possess greater masculinity within themselves. There are men who possess very intense feminine energy. These men are interested in action. They are interested in the body, cultivating the physical, the material. They're interested in emotional expression. Because emotional expression is active. It's rooted in the manipura. So we have here expressions of the masculine and feminine principle that is easy to identify if you learn to read the energy, if you interact with Shiva, if you interact with Shakti, you can know what your balance is. You can self reflect. But this has become more difficult when you introduce all of these gender categories that are divorced from the esoteric expression of the feminine and the masculine. These gender categories subdivide these two essential forces into arbitrary expressions of a balance. And oftentimes the idea of gender. Integrates elements from outside of the masculine and feminine expression. Take, for example, the idea of asexuality as a gender description. Now, these asexual individuals. They are experiencing. Typically an expression of detachment from the physical aspect of sexuality. Often times they just do not feel physical arousal. And in the present age, that physical arousal is typically associated with sexual arousal in general. But sex exists in different forms, in. Different states of consciousness. By drawing in awareness of some absence of interest to a specific thing, a new category is created. Instead of realizing that the balance that exists within this individual is probably directed more towards the masculine expression and is highly internalized, maybe it is intellectualized. That's a potentiality. Or maybe the expression of asexuality is coming from. From a place in the material body, and that individual is craving an expression of intellectual sexuality, is searching for that. And is not able to access that thing. And so therefore, they have a label that they can now apply, saying that they are asexual. It could very well be that it is their dharma to have no interest in sex. But the designation of asexuality does not provide an effective framework for understanding what. Is the essential balance of femininity and. Masculinity within that person. And this criticism can be applied to. Virtually all of these new gender designations. These gender designations are not necessary. Certainly you can utilize them in order. To form a social bond with other. People, maybe in order to describe your identity within a specific cult. But this identity is not getting to the core energy, the core energetic expression of the masculine or the feminine. And we cannot apply this understanding of gender to that which exists outside of our human sexuality. Because Shakti, Shiva, these forces incarnate in. Everything, everything. Even inanimate objects, contain some balance of these principles. Take for example, a stone. That stone is raw material. Everything that exists, contains all of the building blocks of consciousness to some degree. So yes, that stone does possess a mind to some degree, it possesses emotions. To some degree, it possesses spirit to. Some degree, but primarily, overwhelmingly so. That rock is of the blood, it's. Of the physical, the material, it is of shakti. And then on the opposite side, we have expressions of the subtle, such as mother's intuition, a psychic sense. Concerning the. Well being of a child. This connection that is formed is actually typically, unless there's some blood magic occurring. It is a product of the masculine element. It is of a subtle nature. It comes from the interaction between mind and spirit. And so this thing that's forming is an incarnation of Shiva. And there are other incarnations of Shiva as well. And these incarnations are the natural order, the invisible hand that exists within economic systems, within. Natural ecosystems. This is the masculine touching the earth, touching the material, touching shakti, interacting, allowing us to have a perceptive framework for. Understanding how to interact with these elements. That without this framework of understanding would just be a massive chaos. So we need both of these elements. And when we recognize that masculinity and femininity exist outside of ourselves as well as within ourselves, we can start to reflect. We can reflect upon the natural world, the subtle world. We can see how economic systems operate. And we can look and know that there is some element of the self. There is some element of our consciousness. That operates like that economic system, like that natural ecosystem, like this animal or that animal. We can even compare consciousness with the animal kingdom and ourselves. There are those who possess more of a shakti aspect, and so they would find their nature more heavily reflected in the bear or the wolf or the dog. And then you have those who are, say, of. An intellectual nature moving towards the divine masculine. And they might find their nature reflected in a parrot or a falcon or a peacock. So you can see how these various forms of the masculine and the feminine expression, they manifest all around us. And when we know how to identify these things, when we develop a deeper relationship with these things. It enriches our. Experience of the world around us. We can see the fingerprints of the mother and the father in everything. And we can see those fingerprints within ourselves and we can learn, we can observe the nature of the bear and we can understand how the muladhara manifests within us. And how, if we want to access. The blood, we can be like the bear. If we want to access the mind, we can be like the parrot. If we want to access the gut. The inner fire, we can be like the goat. And ultimately what we are doing is we are either acting like the mother or we are acting like the father. And no value judgment can be placed upon one's natural dharmic, subtle dharmic balance. Between these two forces. There is no such thing as one real man or one real woman. There is no standard that can be. Held up where we say, this is the expression of what a man should be, or this is the expression of what a woman should be. This kind of petty moralism in the expression of the masculine and the feminine is something that has been introduced. By. The tastemakers who have failed to capture. The essential essence of these things because. They are trapped in unrefined duality. They have not seen the full expression of contrast between shakti and shiva. One of the goals of tantra yoga. Is to experience the full expression of this contrast. That is what we are working towards. We are born of the mother, we rise to the father, and we return to the mother. And somewhere between the two, we find ourselves. We become our own expression. We are born of the moon, we chase the sun, we return to the land between. We are born of the earth, we chase the waters beyond the firmament. We fall back down as rain. And we rest somewhere between. It's in that place between. That's where we find life. Life as a product of the interaction between the mother and the father. We see this when we create art, when we create children, when we have. Sex, when we fall in love. We see the spark of life expressed in so many different ways with such great color and beauty. And when we find that balance between these two things and we divorce ourselves from the rules of the tastemakers, and we begin to define for ourselves what it means to be a man as an individual or what it means to be a woman as an individual. Then we have our own expression of color that can add to the palette of this great masterpiece.