All right, so tonight I'm going to discuss Nietzsche's Birth of Tragedy. So the Birth of Tragedy is a book that Friedrich Nietzsche wrote about the intermix of the Apollonian and the Dionysian in the formation of the Greek tragedy. And for Nietzsche, the Greek tragedy represented the epitome of culture. And when he wrote the Birth of Tragedy, he was discussing the decline of tragedy and the growing pessimism of modernity. So the essential question of the Birth of Tragedy is how to overcome pessimism through the embrace of suffering and passion. Now, this is very important to understand in the context of Tantra, because it has a lot to do with the balancing of divine feminine and divine masculine energies. Within the Greek tragedy, you have the balance of both the divine feminine and the divine masculine as represented by Dionysus and Apollo. Within Greek culture, you have the tragedy. The tragedy is the combination of the Dionysian carnival and the Apollonian sculpture. So you have form and chaos. This is the essential nature of the divine masculine as represented by Apollo, and the divine feminine as represented by Dionysus. When you bring these art forms together, you have tragedy. Now, what was so special about the Greek tragedy for Nietzsche is that it allowed for a recognition of the suffering within life, and it also allowed for a combination of the two essential elements of life. So for Nietzsche, it was necessary for the Greek people, in his assessment, to have the ability to reflect upon suffering, because this is what allowed them to overcome pessimism. For Nietzsche, Greek culture is defined by pessimism, because this is the point at which we are advancing from an action oriented world to a contemplative world. And so within this contemplative world, there is this sudden realization of the meaninglessness of life. So this is the beginning of nihilism within European culture. And so in order to address this nihilism, it becomes necessary to reflect upon the nature of suffering and find some deeper meaning in that suffering. And so in order to do this, you have to apply both the Apollonian approach of recognizing the form of suffering and the Dionysian approach of the ecstatic mythology, the passion that allows for the overcoming of that suffering. So we see this within the Greek tragedy. The chorus is the Dionysian element, and the dialogue is the Apollonian element. So the dialogue is the essential story that carries on throughout the play. And this is where you have your formal commentary on some aspect of life. And there are many Greek tragedies, but they all tend to focus on the idea of suffering or the inevitability of suffering within life. And the dialogue provides you with an analysis of the intellectual elements at play within a recognition of suffering. So, for example, you have the idea that the hero is facing some sort of task that they must complete. And though they've completed this task, it has led to some downfall in the end. And this is the thread that carries you throughout the story. But behind that is the chorus. The chorus is sort of like the. The hype man, basically, for the dialogue. And in the chorus, you have this commentary, this running commentary on the themes, and it's detached from the core experience of the central character, the hero, who's giving the dialogue. So in the chorus, you have an ability to apply an emotional perspective, one that is at times uplifting, at times critical, but always recognizing some deeper meaning within the experience. And this is typically framed within Greek mythology because myth was the essential framework for most tragedy. And the mythological element allowed for a deeper assessment of meaning in life, one that went beyond the really sterile and intellectualized presentation of events that's provided by the dialogue. So it's within the chorus that you typically find the mythological element. And the chorus is directly associated with the seder or the goat. And oftentimes the chorus was actually referred to as the satyr's chorus because the drunken revelry of the carnival is injected into the chorus. And so there's this element of spontaneous activity or improvisation within the chorus that is in contrast to the dialogue, which kind of holds the entire play together and offers form. So you can see the parallels between dialogue and sculpture. It is the willful taking of these various elements and crafting them in such a way to where you can understand the nature of the hero's journey through this clearly defined framework of events. But it is the chorus that allows for moments of freedom, of escape from that very limiting and contained expression in the dialogue. So there's an issue with the Greek tragedy that occurs, and that is the shift away from the Dionysian element. So within Tantra, there's the idea of the prakriti, which is like the original element. It's the essential matter. And the essential matter has specific forms. So you have tamas, which represents darkness, Rajas, which represents passion, and sattva, which represents light. And these are the three gunas. And so within these three elements, there are associated chakras or states of consciousness. And so for the tamas, you have the muladhara and the svada sthana. And for the rajas, you have manipura and anahata. And then for the sattva, you have vishudi. And Ajna and Sahasra is sort of detached from all of these elements. So we see a shift in the energetic nature of culture from the Rajas, or the passionate expression within the previously dominant Anahata age, to the Sattva, or light culture of the Vishuddhi age. And this occurs with the death of tragedy.



----


The end of the Greek tragedy is marked by the rise of Socrates and also Euripides, because Euripides, he was a great playwright, but he took a different approach where he emphasized the dialogue over the chorus and often would abandon the chorus entirely. So his emphasis was on reason, it was on the presentation of a logical argument in the art form. And this coincided with the rise of philosophy. Philosophy is a major shift away from the original means by which humanity assessed the nature of the cosmos. Prior to the rise of philosophy, systems that recognized the presence of a holistic expression of the cosmos were the dominant form. So all of the great major folk traditions of Europe, for example, Germanic paganism, Hellenism, the Indian tradition of Sanatana Dharma, these are not philosophical systems. These are systems that recognize the presence of all of the various elements of the cosmos, and they do not emphasize one element over the other. So there's this natural balance. With the rise of philosophy, you have a drastic shift towards the mind. And so the application of reason is regarded as the ultimate expression of a search for truth and understanding. And everything is intellectualized. So myth becomes less of a living tradition and turns into the science of archetypes. So the gods lose their essence, they lose their reality. They are no longer active within the culture. Now what you have is the mind elevated to the primary position of understanding. And this is the element of air. Air associated with satva, associated with contemplation. We are moving away from the age of fire, which was represented by the Manipura and the Anahata, to an age of air. And that is the age that we exist in now. Apollo is associated with air, and he is associated with reason and form and the mind. And so when you have this shift, you see an elimination of the Dionysian element as a predominant force within Greek culture. Now, when we're talking about Greek culture, you have to understand that the ancient Greeks were at the time, the epitome of modernity, of culture. And so what occurs in Greece impacts the direction of the rest of the world through modernity. So the shift away from the Greek tragedy in its traditional form, of a balance between the Dionysian and the Apollonian represents a shift towards the divine, masculine or the solar culture within the global framework of consciousness. And so if you want to identify the absolute beginning of modernity, this is the death of tragedy and the rise of Socrates and Western philosophy. Everything follows from that point within the present Visuddhi age. Now, Nietzsche saw this as a major threat to the health of culture, because Nietzsche was rooted in the Anahata, and he was obsessed with the essential element of the anahata, which is willpower. And he was also very concerned with balance. He wanted to create a distinct culture that was defined by the balance of the divine masculine and the divine feminine through the combination of Apollonian and Dionysian energy. And he saw the greatest expression of this in Greek tragedy. So when he wrote the Birth of Tragedy, his goal was to identify the source of the growing pessimism and nihilism within modernity and offer a solution to that pessimism and nihilism. And his solution was a return to tragedy, or from a tantric perspective, a return to the age of the Anahata, which was the previous age before the age of Vishnu. These historical ages follow line with the chakras. Now, what Nietzsche. Excuse me. What Nietzsche recognized as the potential source of a return to Greek tragedy was the music of Richard Wagner. Wagner also was rooted in the Anahata very clearly, and his music represents that energy very well. So Wagner also consciously tried to resurrect the Greek tragedy because both Wagner and Nietzsche believed that there was a lack of the divine feminine spark. Now, they didn't call it divine femininity because they were not operating within the language of Tantra or the Indian tradition, but they did recognize the Dionysian element. And it's the same thing. It's the idea that there was a lack of irrational passion within the culture. Things had become far too reasonable. The rise of scientific thought and the rise of philosophy had created a cooling effect within the global culture that prevented the type of heroic expression that Nietzsche and Wagner believed was necessary to properly understand the role of suffering within life. Because for both of these men, suffering is the platform for a rise to greatness. It is through the process of suffering and the application of the will that the individual transcends the human condition and rises to the state of the Overman or the Ubermensch. This is the ultimate expression of what Nietzsche considered to be the great human potential. Now, it's funny whenever you assess this in the framework of consciousness, because if you know that Nietzsche was rooted in the Anahata, you'll recognize the fact that he's just applying his bias. He's saying that the application of the will is the ultimate expression. And anything outside of this balancing of Dionysus and Apollo and outside of this total embrace of suffering is unhealthy. Now, of course this isn't true because every state of consciousness and every age has. Has a healthy expression. But for Nietzsche, it was all or nothing. If the Dionysian is not present in balance with the Apollonian, he considered it to be absent completely within the culture. And the same for the Apollonian. If the Apollonian was not in balance, then it's gone, it's absent completely. And so you have a swing back and forth in Nietzsche's mind between Dionysian culture and Apollonian culture. And so the ultimate goal would be to bring these into balance and then you have a very strong expression of a healthy culture. But what he failed to recognize is that the divine feminine or the divine masculine is always present within a culture to some degree, unless you see a total dissolution. So you can have a total dissolution in the Apollonian sense, which is like a dissolution into the sun, or a return to oneness through transcendent means, which is what we're moving towards now, or you can have a dissolution through the divine feminine, which is sort of like a self consumption. And in fact there is a means of dissolving at every point of consciousness, including the anahata. The anahata, bringing itself into balance can be a great source of power, but it can also lead to stagnation and it can collapse in on itself. Of course, Nietzsche did not recognize this because at the time that he was writing, the idea of individual consciousness and rooted consciousness had been lost. And there was no way to perceive rooted consciousness and the inherent balance in terms of the quality of these states. So the only way Nietzsche could perceive this condition that he faced in modernity was in a very critical sense. So for Nietzsche, the idea of his philosophical work moving forward from the birth of tragedy was to philosophize with a hammer. He wanted to criticize the ongoing rise of the Apollonian state within Western philosophy. And this is why he was so obsessed with attacking other philosophers, because ultimately he believed that the foundations of modern philosophy were rotten and that it needed to be thrown out completely. What Nietzsche wanted ultimately was a return to myth, because he believed that myth offered man a pathway, an avenue to express the irrational elements of life. That Dionysian element, that chaos, that divine femininity that was lost with Socrates. So this is the work of Nietzsche, this is the work of Richard Wagner and Romantic art in general. All was trying to advance this return to the Anahata. Of course, this can't happen because that age has passed, and we currently live in the Vishudi age. Now it is possible to have an expression of divine femininity and achieve a sort of Greek tragedy state within the present age, but it is not the dominant cultural state, and it will not be the dominant cultural state because it is simply against the dharma of the Vishuddhi culture, which is dominant and will remain dominant until we shift into an Ajna culture. And so when you see Greek tragedy, when you see these heroic or romantic ideas represented, it's always in a subculture, in some pocket of the wider global expression. And in fact, because of this, because it is expressed in contrast with the prevailing age, the prevailing system, it often represents itself in a very intense manner. So it's interesting to consider that because we do not live in an age where the Greek tragedy is the dominant cultural form, when we do see it expressed, it is perhaps even more powerful or even more special than when it was represented in ancient Greece, and it was the norm, because you can experience this state with the full recognition that you are in rebellion against the prevailing age, you are in rebellion against modernity. And so this is something that is relevant too, in discussing Evola, because ultimately, Evola, also a man rooted in the Anahata, was obsessed with a return to myth and was a great student of Nietzsche. And he identified as well this need for a balance between the Dionysian and the Apollonian. And of course, this can create a very healthy culture. But ultimately, it is an expression of bias within that rooted state of the Anahata.