# rtt lecture - Civilizational Consciousness and the Age of Ajna

Tonight we're going to talk about civilizational ages and the process of transferring from the Vishuddhi age, which is the age of modernity, the age that we have been in for a very long time. And we are transferring now into the Ajna age. So in order to understand the significance of the movement into the Ajna age, it is necessary to understand the concept of civilizational ages as it pertains to consciousness. Within the Agra Yoga, we apply rooted consciousness to every aspect of the cosmos. So individual people possess a rooted consciousness that is associated with a chakra. Groups of people possess a specific consciousness associated with a chakra. And even things like inanimate objects can have a consciousness expression. Now, of course, I'm defining consciousness in yogic terms. So this isn't consciousness as in like I'm awake and I am aware of my surroundings. In yoga we would refer to that state as awareness. But consciousness is the energetic expression of a given thing that is identifiable through experience and linked to the chakras. The chakras are the formal expression of consciousness. It is through the chakras that we can understand the differentiation in consciousness and we can rank consciousness, we can compare consciousness, we can understand the fabric of the cosmos. So through an understanding of consciousness, we can recognize specific energetic signatures and we can interact with those energetic signatures, we can control those energetic signatures, we can learn how to master those energetic signatures and use them to our benefit. And this is true within the self mastering all of the chakras. But also from a social standpoint, there are political applications for the doctrine of rooted consciousness. There are political applications of Tantra in traditional tantra, politics, sociology, these are schools of thought that fall under the umbrella of tantra. So tonight we're going to focus on a very specific manifestation of, of the socio political application of consciousness in tantra. And that is civilizational consciousness. So what do we mean when we say that a civilization possesses a specific consciousness? Well, what we are doing is we're applying consciousness as represented by the chakras to the energetic expression of a specific civilization. Now this is something that has been touched upon throughout history in various ways by various thinkers. But these attempts to describe the energetic nature of, of a specific civilizational age were not linked to any sort of formal understanding of consciousness from a Tantric perspective. So they were lacking in their explanative power. Excuse me. But nonetheless, it is interesting to consider that, for example, with the rise of the early Middle Ages, you had what is now known as the Dark Ages or the Dark Age. And in the Dark Age, you had contrast between the old pagan world, which was considered to be an age of light and understanding, awareness, and the Dark Age following the Christianization of Europe. At this time, the beautiful cultural expressions of pagan Europe, of the Aryan tradition, were stripped and replaced with the Abrahamic tradition. And so there was a loss of art, there was economic disaster, there was a loss of science, medicine, a general cultural decline. And to apply darkness as a definitive term in order to describe this shift, this civilizational shift was an attempt by various thinkers to capture the essence of the age. So that's really what we're doing when we're applying consciousness. In assessing a specific civilizational age, we are capturing the essence of that time. And in order to understand the significance of a given age, you have to place it in its proper hierarchical context. So, for example, when I say civilizational age of the Vishudi, I'm referring to the global civilizational age. Now you can have expressions of socio political consciousness at various levels of the social strata. You can have the global expression. You can also have national expressions, you can have local expressions, you can even have familial expressions of a civilizational age. So nations can undergo change. They can express a shared national consciousness. This national consciousness from a civilizational perspective is not necessarily the racial consciousness of the individuals who comprise that nation. What I'm referring to is the energetic expression of the social conditions that are present. So just because we have existed until very recently in the civilizational age of the Vishudi, doesn't mean that everyone on the planet is of a Vishuddhi consciousness. It just means that the social conditions which are present, the general expression of global civilizational superstructure is of a Vishudi nature. That's all it means. Now there's great significance to this because the civilizational age that we exist within influences the way that we interact with one another, that we interact with the self, the way that we interact with the natural world, even the way that we interact with the gods. So there is a major impact of the civilizational age on life itself. But of course, there are so many factors that come into play, because as I said, there is a hierarchy to civilizational consciousness. So you may exist in a nation that is expressing a civilizational age that is not in alignment with the global age. An example of this would be the Soviet Union. Specifically, let's focus on the Soviet Union under the reign of Stalin. Now, the Soviet Union under Stalin was an Ajna civilization. The social structure within the Soviet Union at that time possessed an Ajna consciousness. Now the Specific expression of the Ajna that you may find within the Soviet Union under Stalin was influenced by the wider global civilizational age of the Vashudi. Consciousness paints a picture and each chakra provides a different color to the portrait. So you can find the base color in the portrait, and upon that base you build new elements, new colors, until you craft a full image. That full image that you experience is the culmination, the accumulation of all of the various forms of consciousness that influence your perception. So what we are doing when we decide to focus on a specific civilizational age is we are honing in on one specific element of that portrait and we're seeing how the colors of that element have influenced the entire expression. So let's do that now. Let's focus on the previous age which we have now left, the age of the Vishudi. Let's focus on its manifestation, see how it influenced all other aspects of socio political development in modernity, and then show how the colors have changed, the portrait has taken on a new appearance. That is the age of the Ajna, the global civilizational age of the Ajna. And then we will discuss what that means for us moving forward. So I've said that the age of Vishuddhi is modernity, but my definition of modernity differs greatly from the common definition. The reason I have found it necessary to deviate from the common definition of modernity is because modernity has a very clear, energetic signature that has been present for much longer than what most historians would identify. Most historians would say that modernity begins sometime after the Renaissance period. My argument is that modernity is synonymous with the age of the Vishudi. The global civilizational age of the Visudi. And that age began with the rise of Judaism. Specifically, the Mosaic covenant marks a major turning point where Yahwism becomes explicitly socio political with the promise of the nation of Israel. Yahweh and Judaism are of a Vishudi nature. We can see the covenant with Moses as the foundation of modernity, because all of the major aspects of the modern age were born from this covenant. The rise in the social position of the Jews and the advancement towards the formation of the state of Israel. Almost every major sociological aspect of global politics from the moment of this covenant on have something to do with Israel as a metaphysical idea. So that is why I say that even time periods which are included in what is typically designated as antiquity are still part of modernity, just very early modernity. Now I have said in the past that there is also a link between, between Socrates and the rise of modernity. Because with Socrates, you have the establishment of a strong Vishudi tradition in the assessment of the nature of the cosmos, the intellectualization of this assessment. And it's true that Socrates marks a specific manifestation of the Vishudi age, but it is the Visuddhi age within Europe. So we're operating at a different level of the social strata. If we're talking about the global civilizational age of Yashiri, we're talking about the Jews and we're talking about modernity. So this urge to rebel against modernity that you find with thinkers like Julius Evola, Miguel Serrano, Savitri Devi, this really is an urge to rebel against Judaism, to rebel against the state of Israel. And when I mean rebel against the state of Israel, I don't just mean the contemporary political manifestation of the state of Israel, I mean the metaphysical manifestation of the state of Israel, that which was promised by Yahweh to Moses. Now, Arians have had a conflictual relationship with modernity. During the previous age, before the age of Vishudi, the age of Anahata, Aryans reigned supreme. And this was an age that was defined by the God King. At this time, heroic embrace of life and connection to the Raja center, the Manipura, which is the foundation of Arianism, was something that was expressed globally. But Aryans have struggled to exist within modernity, within the age of Vishudi, because the Aryan race is part of a tradition of Aryan flame, Aryan fire, that is rooted in the Manipura, the rising sun. And the adversarial condition to Arianism in the Manipura is Judaism at the Vishudi. So Aryans have struggled to exist in such a highly intellectual age. Aryan culture has rescinded a bit from a global expression, but it's still alive in pockets, in concentrated cults where the power of the tradition is still present. It's alive in individuals, it's alive in small cults, it's alive in certain explosions from time to time of the Aryan fire. But at no point in the age of Vishudi, in modernity, was Arianism ever the dominant social structure. The dominant social structure throughout modernity has been Judaism in its various incarnations. Now, we have seen as a result of the spread of Judaism, is in the forms of Christianity throughout Europe or Islam in the Middle east in Asia, parts of Asia, we have seen the rise of a specific form of tyranny, which is expressed with great beauty and understanding by Aldous Huxley and George Orwell. Brave New World and 1984 are strong representations of the End state of the age of Vishudi. This is the point at which Jewish tyranny advanced to such a degree that nations lost their connection to the soil, to the divine feminine, and fell under an Apollonian pursuit of solar perfection. And I say perfection in quotation marks based upon the Christian ideal or the Muslim ideal, or even in India we have the Hindu ideal, which is heavily influenced by Abrahamism. This is not the pagan ideal. This is not pursuit of pagan perfection, which would be Dharma. This is pursuit of chastity in a Christian sense. This is pursuit of a life without sin, a civilization without sin. This is progressivism. At the heart of the progressive is a deep hatred and distrust for the material, for life, for imminence. Now, of course, these individuals expressing this progressivism, they lack the sort of material foundation in the race. They lack a healthy racism that allows them to even begin to practice yoga. These civilizations lack this healthy racism to even begin to practice yoga. So what happens? They are trapped in unrefined shakti, individuals trapped in this state, nations trapped in this state, they cannot escape. And so while these nations express this desire to escape the sin of the material world, they nevertheless are trapped in materialism. And this is what breeds hedonism and the sort of cognitive dissonance that you find in the civilizational structures throughout modernity. But this is coming to an end because the age of Huxley and Orwell is over. The existential nausea that plagued late modernity is gone. And in its place, we find the burgeoning cosmic horror of Lovecraft. If you want to know what is coming for all of us in terms of the global civilizational expression of consciousness, look to Lovecraft. Because Lovecraft captured the terrible awareness that comes with stepping out of the grounded point in the mind and realizing that this earth, this plane, is part of a much grander expression that reaches far beyond the present dimension of consciousness and brings us to vistas which are unimaginable to the average man. And when even a shred of these vistas becomes perceptible horror, cosmic horror on a global scale. Now, I say this without any sort of attachment to the quality of the cosmic horror, because something can be horrific, something can be terrible, but simultaneously beautiful. And so when I speak of this shift into the age of Ajna, don't think that I'm considering this to be some beckoning of doomsday. It will be doomsday for some people. But there is grand opportunity in this shift. We are incredibly fortunate to be living at a time when we are experiencing this shift. From one global civilizational age to the next. This is such a rare occurrence, and it's happening now as we speak. We are in the midst of it, and so we have gained access to great opportunity. Now these civilizational ages are speeding up. This is an aspect of the Yuga cycle. The Satya Yuga lasts longer than the Treta Yuga, which lasts longer than the Dvapara Yuga, which lasts longer than the Kali, excuse me, Kali Yuga. As you get closer to the final point of dissolution or transcendence, things begin to speed up in the universe, in the cosmos itself. And so the age of the Vishudi did not last nearly as long as the age of the Anahata, which did not last as long as the age of the Manipura, and so on and so forth. The age of the Ajna, according to what has been observed in the tradition of the Yuga, will not last as long as modernity, but it will be intense. And so those of us with the awareness of the Yuga, those of us with awareness of the nature of civilizational cycles as they manifest, we can now prepare ourselves to be in the best position for success in this new age. Now, how are we going to do that? Well, we have to understand what the age of Ajna has in store for us. And we can do that by observing first the nature of the Ajna as it pertains to civilizations, as well as observe the examples that have been given to us by miniature Ajna ages. And then we're going to do that right now. So we have the nature of the Ajna as is manifested from a sociological standpoint. Okay, what does this represent? Well, if you think about the Svadhisthana, the Svadhisthana is the adversarial point of consciousness to the Ajna. And the Svada Sthana deals with differentiation. It deals with materiality, the sensuous element, so the five senses. Okay. And if you think of this in terms of a civilization, Japan is a good example of a civilization that is very much rooted in the Svadhisthana. And the Japanese race is also rooted in this vadistana. So we have in Japan now, I should say, as of late, the Japanese have taken on more of a Bushudi nature in their civilizational expression. But for most of the history of Japan, we see a Svadostana civilization. What does that look like? Well, it is intensely hierarchical. There is intense attention, awareness brought to the material quality of things. There is a strong awareness of race, and there is intense refinement. The craftsmanship Japanese Craftsmanship unparalleled, beautiful expressions of art and culture in Japan. Very formal. And there are clear rules regarding the manner in which you act within society. Now, what would the opposite of that look like? First off, when we're talking about the Ajna as it applies to civilization, what we see is material dissolution. We see a crumbling of the material senses. We see a collapse of the recognition of hierarchy, and we see the rise of an intense mysticism. So the first thing that you can expect in a global civilizational age of the Ajna is the destruction of the stability of material conditions, economic systems collapsing, social hierarchy either falling apart or becoming some kind of strange abstraction of hierarchy, like what we see in the Chinese social credit system. The Chinese, by the way, are an Ajna race, and they exist within an Ajna civilization they've created for themselves. And their concept of social credit is sort of like this maladjusted svadostana operating from a base in the Ajna. So expect things like this to develop, but on a global scale. Social credit over money, the inability of civilizations of nations to craft economic systems that are functional, the inability of these nations to develop any sort of physical infrastructure that can be relied upon. There will be great confusion regarding the nature of the material, regarding the way that we relate as human beings to the material. There will be intense mysticism, the intellectual grounding that was such an important part of the Vishuddhi age. The. The application of reason will mostly disappear and will be replaced by mysticism. At that point, the old orders of magic will be renewed and we will see new magical ages within various civilizations. However, we have to recognize that what is defined as magic in a common sense is very limited. There is a bias towards contemplative expressions of magic. Magic that comes from the Ajna, magic that comes from the Sahasra. But the kind of magic that you experience in the Sahasra and the Ajna, the interdimensional aspect, I'm talking communing with beings from beyond this plane. I'm talking about manifestation of entities, ghosts, demons, deities. This is something that we will see in the age of Ajna. And it's going to be a great shock to those who are in this transitional phase. It won't be such a shock to people. Maybe 500 years from now, 600 years from now, they might be able to perceive these things as just being a mundane aspect of existence. But whenever this starts to occur on a global stage, it's going to generate a lot of horror, cosmic horror and great terror. And most people will try to hold on to their mind, because the Ajna is half mind and half spirit. And so there will be those who try to throw themselves into the little bit of grounding that they have. But of course, there is no real grounding in the mental aspect of the Ajna. It is just simply intellectual awareness of the spirit. And this intellectual awareness of the spirit is going to force people on a global scale to confront things that most of them are not prepared to confront. And what's going to happen is most of these people who are confronted with these aspects of consciousness are going to create some type of framework, some type of mental matrix to explain these things. This is already happening. You see now the rise in the interest, interest regarding ancient aliens or UFOs or the coming alien races that are going to visit our planet and teach us how to live properly. If the average man or woman in the present age is confronted with something that is interdimensional, like, let's say, manifestation of Vishnu as kalki, they're going to understand this incarnation in the only framework of understanding that they possess, which is that what they are seeing is an alien from outer space. And so that's why in this transitional period that we find ourselves in, there is this growing interest in extraterrestrials. But of course, we know as practitioners of yoga that there is much more to the cosmos than just extraterrestrials. There's much more to the cosmos than our present dimension of consciousness. And so those of us who practice yoga will be prepared to interact with this coming age with greater meaning and discernment. And we're going to need that meaning and discernment, because, as I said, the material senses will be under assault. The idea of physical beauty will be under assault. It already is. Hierarchy will be under assault. It already is. Reason, logic, most of that will be thrown out the window. Just take a look at the manner in which political debates are conducted. Now, if you look at just maybe 80 years ago, political debates and political discourse was highly reasonable. There was an obsession with reason, logic, presenting things without emotional bias. And of course, this is an aspect of the age of the Vishudi. But that is over. And so instead, we have demented old men and crazy sex pests having weird shouting matches. It's all abstraction, it's all narrative driven. Narrative is central to the Ajna. It is the intellectualization of the spirit of things that creates narrative. And we see global narratives forming all the time. Now, are these narratives rooted in any sort of logic or reason? Very rarely, but they are still Powerful. There are many narratives that are forming. There are narratives regarding race, there's narratives regarding nationhood, narratives regarding sexuality. And increasingly, there is less of a demand placed upon the people expressing these narratives to actually back up what they're saying with any sort of reasonable argument or any sort of intellectual grounding, let alone any sort of physical grounding in something like the Muladhara. And that's because we're getting further and further away from that which is material, that which is physical. Now, let's think about all of this in the context of two specific examples of miniature ages of Ajna. We have, first, the Dark Age. So the Dark Age, the early Middle Age period, was, as I said, defined by a collapse in the standards of culture, collapse in economic stability. Why did this occur? Well, in Europe, you went from a stable pagan civilization to a period of decadence where the instability of those pagan institutions led to the infestation of the Jewish tradition and the rise of Christianity. And so with the rise of Christianity, you had a sudden tearing away of the material foundation, because pagan culture at that time was extremely imminent. And there was a deep connection to the blood, deep connection to Shakti, deep connection to the Svadhisthana as well, and a deep connection to the Manipura. Aryan culture at that time was extremely active. Now, suddenly you have ripped that away and you have thrown everything into contemplation. But were the Jews allowing the European people in the expression of Christianity? Were they allowing them to have access to any sort of foundation in reason, in logic, in the Vishudi, some kind of intellectual grounding that would allow them to poke holes, this new cult? No, of course not. What they did was they threw them into mysticism. And that is one of the great powers of the Ajna. Its mystical quality, the alchemical essence of the Ajna, is mist. And so you had this intense mystification within Europe. Now, this is why you lost access to medicine. This is why you lost access to mathematics, to any sort of infrastructure that would help to advance civilization. Everything was thrown into the Dark Age. And in this Dark Age, you had intense paranoia, brutality, just unheard of brutality. Why? Why was it so easy for Europeans to embrace the kind of sadistic brutality that you see in the Christian cult? And I'm talking like torture chambers, things of that nature. Why was it so easy to do this? Why was it so easy to abuse women, the feminine principle? Well, it's because if you're thrown into an intense state of contemplation with no grounding in Shakti, all you have Left is divine masculinity. And that divine masculinity without any grounding in Shakti becomes intensely misogynistic. And it also becomes intensely brutal in a physical sense. Because there is no respect for the body. There's no respect for the boundaries of the body. There's no respect for border borders. There's no respect for the blood, there's no respect for physical pain. All sensation becomes subtle. There's a total disconnection. And so it's no big deal to torture someone. It's no big deal to have dead bodies strewn out through the streets, to have rotten stench of trash everywhere and nobody cleans up anything. It's. It's an aspect of maladjusted sattvic behavior. It's the same kind of urge that gives rise to the Cheeto covered neckbeard. But it's manifested as a civilization. That's what you see with European Christianity at that time in the Dark Age. Now, the other miniature Ajna age that we need to look to in order to give us an idea of what we may be facing in the future is the Soviet Union. I already mentioned the Soviet Union under Stalin. But the Soviet Union in general, Russians are an Ajna race. And for a very long time Russia as a civilization, as a nation, socio politically, they have acted in an Ajna sense. And so we have within this manifestation of the Ajna a sort of national schizophrenia, an intense national paranoia, borderline personality disorder, represented as a nation. And you have communism, the collapse of hierarchy, the collapse of race, the collapse of any sort of understanding of effective economic policy. That's because everything has become adversarial to the svada Sthana elements. The svada sthana is the home of marketplace activity. It's the home of the merchant. It's the home of taste. Without taste, what happens to your civilization, it begins to lose its material sense to, to the point where you cannot operate a market, you cannot operate an economic system. And there's this constant paranoia, there's this sense of the spirit of things like I can read your mind, comrade. I can know that you're going to stab me in the back. That's what you get with something like Soviet communism. And we are on the cusp of a global manifestation of this. The fears surrounding global government are not unfounded because national borders, those borders require some type of grounding. Now in modernity, those borders were primarily grounded in an intellectual defense of the border. This is my civic boundary, right? Well, of course that's a contemplative boundary. It is A boundary, but it's contemplative. It's not nearly as solid as the boundary you have in blood where you say, this is my physical border, these are my people, and you're not allowed in. That kind of intense border formation was quite rare in modernity and became increasingly rare as the age of the Vishudi advanced. But now we're at a point where not even the contemplative grounding for borders will stand. We will see, it's very likely, the rise of some sort of global super state, a state without borders, that is based upon this idea of collapsing hierarchy and the inability to recognize the physical nature of race. But in the midst of all of this abstraction and narrative and collapse of the material structure, we have one great opportunity, and that is the end of Jewry. Because as I said, the age of the Vishudi is directly tied to the rise of the Jews and the nation of Israel. The spread of Christianity throughout Europe, all in the name of Israel. The spread of Islam throughout the Arab world. It's funny to say because of the infighting, but it's all in the name of Israel. All nation formation, prophecy, sociopolitical structures on a global scale, except for those few examples of sudden fiery bursts of Aryan rebellion have been directed towards the manifestation of Israel. But we're coming to the end of the Jewish age. We're coming to the end of modernity. And at the end of this point, we will see the complete and total destruction of of Israel. It will end, it will be over. And in the ashes of modernity we will build a new age. That age can take many forms. The Aryan tradition can rise again. And the European people specifically are at a point now where they have reached a level of kundalini development of consciousness development, where they are ready to advance beyond the Sahasra and re establish hard boundaries in connecting with Shakti. And when this happens, when the European people regain connection with the Muladhara, connection with the blood, and then unify transcendence with immanence, unify Shiva and Shakti at the Anahata, and achieve Sat than as a race, then we might even in our own lifetime see once again global civilizational Arianism. And if that occurs, we can emphasize the healthy Dharmic expression of the Ajna. We do not have to see the rise of global communism. Instead, what we can see is the rise of pagan imperialism once again taking the entire earth by storm and maybe seeing the gods walk on this earth again.