# rtt lecture - Psychedelic Black Magic and Tantra

So tonight I'm going to talk about the potential negative impact of psychedelics, psychedelic drugs, that is, and the use of Tantric yoga in order to overcome and address these negative impacts. I have a great deal of personal experience with this, and so I'm going to draw from my personal practice what I did in order to overcome the negative impacts that I experienced from very heavy use of psychedelic drugs. Now, before we begin, I want to introduce a concept, and that is the hallucinogen persisting perception disorder, or hppd. I call this a concept rather than a diagnosis because I reject psychiatry on principle, although I do not reject all of the work that is done within psychiatry, because, of course, there is important work that is done within that field in the assessment of the nature of the mind. But psychiatry as a practice, as a system, I reject because it is a degeneration from tantra, and it is a degeneration in many ways. And we are not going to get into the details of how it is a degeneration this evening because we would be here for a very long time. That is a topic for another lecture or multiple lectures. But I will say that psychiatry places far too much of an emphasis on the mind. And this diagnosis of hppd, which is applied to individuals who develop maladjustment of consciousness after the use of psychedelics, this is a relatively new diagnosis for explaining a process that is outside the grasp of psychiatry in terms of understanding and awareness, because psychiatry simply lacks the necessary tools of understanding, lacks the proper conceptual foundation in order to really understand the pathways of consciousness which are impacted by psychedelics. Now, the assessment of psychedelic drugs within Tantra is as old as Tantra itself. We can look to a substance like soma, for example, soma being a psychoactive substance that played a very important role in ritual work within the Aryan tradition of India. And you can find many examples of soma, or the nectar of the gods in Aryan tradition. So drugs have always been a part of the Aryan tradition. They've always been a part of Tantra yoga. But within Tantra yoga, they were utilized carefully. They were utilized typically in a ritualistic sense, within the context of the holistic understanding of consciousness that we have at our disposal as tantrics. So while it is true that individuals in ancient times experienced negative impacts as a result of psychedelics, we can safely say that those negative impacts were not nearly as prominent as they are today, because there was a greater understanding applied in the assessment of psychedelics and their impact on consciousness. So when we talk about hppd, we're talking about the Contemporary understanding of the impact of psychedelics on consciousness from the perspective of psychiatry, this is a far more complex issue than what has been presented by psychiatry. And psychiatry has a lot of catching up to do in comparison to something like Tantra in developing a functional understanding of how psychedelics impact not just the mind, but the physical body, the emotional center, and most importantly, spirit. Because the diagnosis of hppd and we're going to get into just exactly what HPPD is in a moment. But the diagnosis of HPPD is structured in such a way that it deals with the mental aspect of the impact of psychedelics and some of the physical effects. This diagnosis fails to recognize the spiritual significance of what is occurring with the use of psychedelics. Now, I understand firsthand the impact of psychedelics not just on the mind, but on every aspect of the body, because, as I said, I have had extensive experience with psychedelics. Now, I'm not going to go into great detail about my experience with psychedelics because that is irrelevant to the present discussion. But I will give some background to provide a foundation for certain nuanced discussion relating to the practices that I employed in order to address the negative effects of psychedelics. I do want to say, first off, before I explain my personal experience with psychedelics, that I do not believe that psychedelics, or any other drug, or any other substance for that matter, or practice even, is inherently bad or good. The impact of a specific practice or substance on an individual's consciousness should be measured in terms of dharma. If the practice or the substance is dharmic for the individual, if it offers power or a pathway to power, then it may be considered good. If it undermines the well being of the practitioner, if it undermines their power, if it is adharmic, then we may consider it to be bad. So this discussion is not an attack on psychedelics or users of psychedelics. This discussion is putting into proper context the role of psychedelics in a yogic practice so that individuals may utilize psychedelics more effectively. And this discussion ultimately focuses on addressing some of the negative impacts that can be experienced from the use of psychedelics. As many psychedelic users are now finding, these substances are not nearly as benevolent or accessible as they have been represented as being by the emerging psychedelic culture. So in terms of my personal experience with psychedelics, this is very unorthodox use of psychedelics. I was initiated into vamashara practices at a very young age. I was born into generational witchcraft. So someone who had close access to me on a consistent basis was utilizing psychedelics in a ritual fashion without My knowledge. For many years, I was given these substances as part of a ritual practice. And then at later points in time, I utilized some of these substances willfully in ritual practice. Now, some of these substances were given to me in pill form. I smoked some of these substances. Some of these substances were placed in my food and given to me and utilizing these substances in a varmashara practice in Left Hand Path Tantra. Most of my experience with the psychedelics was within the framework of meditative exercise. So just as an example, I would be given a substance. When I began to experience the effects of the substance, I would be placed in some type of ritual exercise. Usually, the goal of the exercise was to induce a bad trip, and then I would have to utilize pranayama or some other meditative technique in order to navigate the bad trip, essentially and bring myself back to a grounded point either in the mind or the physical body. This practice began at the age of 7 and continued consistently until the age of roughly 16. I had sporadic interaction with the ritual use of psychedelics for another four years or so, at which point I halted the use of psychedelics and began a very intensive ascetic practice in order to address the negative impacts of these substances. So now that I've established some background, and by the way, I should also mention that I developed very severe reactions, and I'm going to get into the extent of this in just a moment, but I developed very severe reactions to these psychedelics, and I have had major physical impacts as well. I'll be discussing these at length, but it is important to understand that my experience with psychedelics was very trying. Much of my experience with psychedelics was willfully directed towards a bad trip or a negative experience, because that was the goal of the ritual practice. Very rarely was I given a substance with the goal of inducing any sort of benevolent or calming experience. So I want to make that very clear that my experience with psychedelics is not typical. With that being said, studies into HPPD population studies have shown that over half of users of psychedelics have experienced some symptoms of hppd. Now, these studies are in their early stages because not much is known about hppd. Like I said, psychiatry has failed to recognize the true nature of the condition that they call hppd. And really this diagnosis is a blanket term that fails to recognize the variety of expression that we find in the alteration of consciousness through the use of substances. So you can utilize a substance like lsd, for example, with full intention of having a good trip, and you can have a good trip, and you can take a Relatively low dose of lsd and you can still end up with HPPD symptoms. You can end up with HPPD symptoms even from something as benign as cannabis. It really is dependent upon the consciousness of the individual. And that's something that must be understood. The fact that there is no uniformity to the way that individuals respond to psychedelics. This is an issue of dharma. We can't treat this as a generalized phenomenon. We have to recognize that there are some individuals who can drop acid for years and never have any sort of negative consequence whatsoever. And there are other individuals who can smoke one joint and it will ruin them for the rest of their lives. So we have to recognize this, that the way that people respond to psychedelics, it's dharmic. There are some people who can turn that poison into medicine very easily. There are some people who are hardly even affected by psychedelics. There are others who will have a life altering transformation immediately. This talk is directed towards those people who have utilized psychedelics, have had some negative impact, have developed these symptoms which are now being associated with what psychiatry calls hppd. And they are seeking a solution. They're seeking a means of overcoming the negative impact of their use of these substances. Now they won't find a solution from psychiatry. Psychiatry does not know how to address hppd. The diagnosis of HPPD is included in the dsm, but there are no strongly supported treatment methods for hppd. There is so little understanding, so little awareness of the depth of consciousness within psychiatry. They cannot even begin to understand how to fix the problems that result from consciousness alteration through psychedelics. So let's jump into an exploration of what HPPD is, the specific symptoms that are associated with hppd, how they relate to tantra, yoga, how they relate to consciousness. And then we will discuss some of the specific methods that I utilized in my practice in order to overcome these symptoms. Okay, so let's start with micropsia and macropsia. So micropsia is the perception of things in your environment as being smaller than they actually are. And macropsia is seeing things as larger than they actually are. I experienced this symptom firsthand. This is a very common symptom of hppd. If you think about Alice in Wonderland, Alice with the eat me and drink me potions, where she grows really large in a room or gets really small in the room. That's kind of what these symptoms feel like. I remember on multiple occasions I would. I would be laying in bed and I would see the doorway of the room expand, get very large, or it would shrink. Now I Have to be clear that I was experiencing these symptoms long after I had halted any use of psychedelics. And that's the key feature of hppd. These symptoms continue after you have halted the consumption of the substances. That's what makes it a persisting problem. This used to be called acid flashbacks, but now we have this term hppd. Well, let me make it clear that I have not been diagnosed with hppd. I don't believe in psychiatry. I don't support psychiatry. So I will not see a psychiatrist. I don't have the symptoms of HPPD anymore anyways. So there's no need for me to see a psychiatrist for this or anything else. But I do not have an official diagnosis of hppd. I can only say that I have experienced these symptoms which are associated with hppd. And I'm utilizing this diagnosis framework because it is becoming so prevalent within society and so many people have gotten this diagnosis or have experienced these symptoms. And this is just an easy way to frame the discussion. But I digress. I have experienced the micropsia and the macropsia. And with this experience, psychiatry can only explain this in terms of the mind. There's some alteration in the mind that's causing some misperception of space. But through exploration of consciousness in Tantra, we know that there is a physical gross body and there is a subtle spiritual body. Now we have the five physical senses. Sight, touch, hearing, taste, smell. Those are aspects of the physical body. We also have five subtle senses. Now, the subtle senses are associated with the ajna, the third eye, and the subtle body. Just as we would associate the physical senses, the sensuous element, with the svada sthana, the adversarial consciousness of the svada sthana, which is the ajna, is the place that holds the five subtle senses. So an example of a subtle sense would be like when you hear a song, but there's no music playing that song, that sound is in your mind, right? Well, it's actually between your mind and spirit. In the Ajna, this is the place where the intellectual element of the visuddhi interacts with the spiritual element of the Sahasra. And then at the Ajna, we have the combined element which allows us to experience the subtle senses. When we experience something that is psychedelic, most of the psychedelic experience occurs in the third eye. So, for example, when you see the doorway expand and retract, this is the result of moving prana, or awareness, into the third eye, into the subtle body. This is quite a shocking experience for most people because most people spend the majority of Their time on this plane of existence. Operating from the physical body as the foundation of experiencing consciousness. Through meditative exercises in Tantra, you can train yourself to shift your awareness primarily to the subtle body. So when you do this, you're shifting to a mirror of your physical body. But it is a contemplative expression of what we see in the physical. So you have the shape of a body. You have the general idea of a body. And you have these subtle senses. But it is contemplative. It is not bound to the laws of the natural order. So when you shift into the subtle body as your primary vehicle for understanding the world around you, for exploring the cosmos, your awareness shifts into what we call subtle space. Subtle space differs from natural space. Natural space is the material foundation that scientists study. And they say this is all that exists, is the natural world. But there is this other world, this place between dimensions that we call subtle space. And within subtle space, you can have alterations of your environment. That seem to defy the laws of the physical universe. Because subtle space operates on different rules from physical space. When you are in subtle space, you are able to perceive things with greater fluidity. This is why, elementally speaking, we associate the third eye with mist mystification. We are moving from the airiness of the mind towards the deep waters of the spirit. So the things that you experience within subtle space, Operating from the subtle body, they are mystical experiences. And they are not just occurring in the mind. The mind is the matrix. It is the grounding force of contemplation. That allows you to construct a framework of understanding. So that you can interpret what occurs within the spiritual realm. When these two things interact, as I said, they meet at the third eye. And so what occurs with intense psychedelic experience. Is you're removing yourself from your grounding in the mind. I liken it to when you're a kid and you're in a swimming pool. The waters of the pool that represents the spirit, what we would find in the Sahasra. And the grounding point, the mind, that is the floor of the pool. So as you are walking towards the deep end, you can keep your head above the water. Because you are at that grounding point in the vishudi, in the mind. But as you get closer to the deep end, it's harder to keep your head above water. And you're on your tiptoes and you're jumping up and you're trying to keep yourself above water. And then eventually you slip and you lose your grounding in the mind. And then you fall into the Deep water. There is a tipping point. And the tipping point is at the ajna. On one side of the Ajna, we have a deeper rootedness in the mind. This is what we would associate in astrology with Gemini. This is the dream space. This is an area where the mind is dominant in the relationship with subtle space. At some point, if you venture far enough into the deep end, you will go over the edge. This is when you reach the deep waters. And this is what we associate in astrology and tantric astrology with the cancerian element. So you slip and you lose your footing. And this is when you can have the really intense mind melting psychedelic experiences, when you fall off into the deep end. And that's when things stop making sense. So if you're experiencing something like the doorway shrinking and expanding, shrinking and expanding, and it seems to defy your understanding of the laws of physical reality, that's because you've moved into a new plane of consciousness. You are existing between worlds. You have one foot in our physical reality and another foot in a separate plane. These substances, psychedelics, they act as a quick portal to other dimensions of consciousness. And when you enter these other dimensions of consciousness, the rules change. Things become far more flexible, far more fluid. So once you lose that grounding, if you don't have the proper framework of understanding for interpreting this experience, you're really at the mercy of whatever influence is introduced. And these influences can come from the physical environment, but they can also come from the spirit realm. And either can be beneficial to you or can be harmful. Really depends. Let's move on to another common symptom of hppd, which is pareidolia. So pareidolia is defined as the meaningful interpretation of a nebulous stimuli. Now, I have a problem with this definition because, first off, what is meaningful and what is nebulous? This is relative. What is meaningful or nebulous to an individual is entirely dependent upon their dharma. We can't just make a blanket statement and say that this is meaningful. We're applying meaning here, and it's objective. I can show you what meaning is to everyone, and it's an objective standard of meaning. We can't do that. We also can't say with certainty what is nebulous, because it's all a matter of perception. Psychiatry tries to place judgment upon individuals for applying meaning to stimuli when they believe it to be inappropriate. Now, of course, within a certain framework of understanding, you can define parameters of that which is meaningful versus that which is not meaningful, or that which is nebulous versus that which is solid, you can do that. But that is not what they're doing in psychiatry. They are just placing an umbrella definition on everyone, on every experience. So, pareidolia, what is this? Well, in terms of tantra, when we have an experience where, let's say, for example, you see a brick wall and a face, a human face, appears in the brick wall, in psychiatry, they would just call that pareidolia, and they would write it off as just a hallucination. It's an illusion. There is no meaningful reality to this experience. But in tantra, we recognize that this experience can either come from imagination, which is an area that is associated with dream space. In the Gemini, this is when the mind is dominant in the third eye, or it can come from an actual spiritual manifestation. And this is when the spirit is dominant in the third eye. So it's a matter of weighing between the Gemini element on one side and the Cancerian element on the other. If the Gemini element, dream space, is dominant, then we would say that this person is just imagining what they are seeing. And so this is the mind taking spiritual resources, spiritual elements, prana, and crafting an illusion. But if the spiritual element is present, then yes, you can have an actual manifestation of something that is spiritual, that is outside of the mind, that is outside of the self. And so within tantra yoga, we apply certain exercises in order to be able to identify the difference between what is of a Gemini nature versus what is of a Cancerian nature, what is mind oriented or what is spirit oriented. And it takes time to develop an understanding of the energetic difference between these things. But it can be done. It has been accomplished by many yogins over many centuries. In psychiatry, they throw out the potentiality that what you are experiencing is anything more than an illusion in the mind. Because psychiatry is a vishudi practice, and the bias is entirely in the mind. They don't see anything outside of their own cultural consciousness. Psychiatry is a vishooty social body. So they're always going to see things from that framework. Tantra is holistic. Tantra sees things from super consciousness, from fourth state consciousness. And so in tantra, we can apply a more detached perspective and we can see that there are elements at play here that psychiatry is not recognizing. That means that, yes, there are instances where you have been tripping and you may have actually experienced an interaction with something outside of yourself. You may have actually come into contact with an entity with something that exists outside of you, an intelligence, a body, a presence outside of the self. This is possible. You should not Assume, however, that every single experience that you've had on psychedelics was a spiritual experience. It's not necessarily so that every experience on mushrooms or LSD or DMT or anything else has some spiritual significance. You can't know the difference until you experience the difference, until you practice and you develop an understanding of how to recognize the difference between these things. Tantra yoga is so powerful because we have a framework of understanding that was developed over thousands of years that provides us with an understanding of how to organize these experiences and how to navigate our consciousness. Psychiatry is a very young science, and maybe over time they'll reinvent the wheel and psychiatry will become tantra. But it's not necessary because we already have tantra. We already have a system for understanding consciousness with greater depth of understanding. So what is meaningful in an interpretation of a specific phenomenon when you're utilizing something like psychedelics, what is meaningful is really up to the perception of the individual. And your perception, your ability to perceive the difference between things is going to increase with your power in yoga or some other practice that is tantric. It's not going to increase through psychiatry, at least not to the degree where you can recognize differentiation in that manner. Okay, let's talk about palinopsia, which is the persistence of an afterimage. This is very common with hppd. So, like, for example, you see a bright flash, and that afterimage that occurs as a result of that bright flash, it just will not go away. Well, we have explanation for this in tantra as well. There's a practice called trataka, very common practice in this school. It is one of the primary practices that we utilize in meditative exercise. And with trataka, what you typically do is you'll focus your awareness on a candle flame. When you close your eyes, you get an afterimage. We want to, in tantra, encourage the appearance of this afterimage because it begins to stimulate the third eye. We're stimulating a very specific relationship between the vishudi and the ajna, where there is a manifestation of imagery. This is the subtle sight, the afterglow that we experience in trataka. This is sort of like a little layup for us. It gives us a foundation to work with some material. So what we know is there is a physical element to the afterimage, to a presentation of an afterimage. If you're looking at the sun or someone takes a picture of you with their flash on, or you're looking at a candle flame, there's a physical element to the afterimage. But you can train your mind and you can train the third eye to generate images and you can recreate that after image. Now what happens with the use of psychedelics is that pathway of generating visualization. The third eye is open and it remains open. It's like you peel the eyelids off and you can't shut off the visualizing element. It remains present. And that's where that persistent hallucination begins. You start to see these images and you cannot eliminate them. The visual snow that people often report with hppd, this is another example of the doors of perception being blown wide open to where you can no longer shut them. And that is why we have this after image that is produced. I have trained many students in the generation of the psychic symbol, which is the final stage of a six stage meditative process of antarmona. And we also utilize trataka. I've trained many students in trataka to generate an image of a candle flame utilizing the afterimage as a foundation. The pranic channels that they are accessing in trataka or antarmana or any of these other meditative exercises that utilize visualization, these pranic channels are the same pranic channels that you access when you take psychedelics. The psychedelics are a shortcut. But you can access the same experience through meditative exercise with no substance, no drug needs to be taken to access this. And in fact, you can experience states of consciousness, altered consciousness through tantric yoga, without drugs, without any substances whatsoever that rival or eclipse the intensity of the most powerful psychedelics. I have had students report these experiences to me. Many yogins have experienced this. I have experienced this myself many times. Intensification of color. This is something that can result from the application of ideation or imagination upon the physical world. The Vishudi is the place of magic in terms of fire in the mind. There is a magic to the mind. We often don't see this as magic because we just have exited the age of the Visuddhi where intellectualization was seen as something mundane. But many of the things that were accomplished during the age of the Visuddhi would have been considered magical at any other time. When you have access to a world of imagination within your mind, it's much like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Things get bright, things get colorful. You can intensify the vibrant nature of everything around you. And you can do this without drugs. Many of my students, when I put them in the Vishudi, they have experienced this intensity of color, this fire in the mind and what it is Is that when you, let's say, for example, when you eat food with intention, you can taste chocolate. If you're just eating the chocolate and you're not even thinking about the chocolate, you don't even think about the flavor. It's bland, it's just something that you're mindlessly consuming. But when you stop to actually think, apply your mind in tasting the chocolate, you can really taste the essence of the chocolate and the intensity of the flavor is increased. Well, the same is true for visualization. When you are perceiving things in your environment, your mode of visual perception can change depending upon your ability to access certain chronic channels. And if you've practiced meditation, certain meditative exercises, you can learn how to willfully increase the vibrancy of colors in your environment and decrease the vibrancy when you take psychedelics. This is another example of the doors of perception being blown wide open to where you can no longer control the intensity of the experience. So you can get stuck in this state of color intensification. And this can be quite disturbing for people because if you don't have control over the experience, you are now at the mercy of this aspect of your consciousness. And many people have reported that this leads to anxiety, it leads to depression, it leads to a loss of personalization. Depersonalization is very common with hppd. And this actually is more in alignment with this Asura, because certain drugs, especially something like 5 Meo DMT is probably the most extreme example of this. With something like 5MEO DMT, you are experiencing ego death by taking a drug. Now most people, they do not possess the conceptual understanding of the ego or ego death or consciousness to be able to understand what they experienced when they took this drug. And so when they have this ego death, their reality is shattered and they're left to pick up the pieces. Most people who have had this experience, they do not find tantra yoga, they do not find a practice that actually gives them a detailed, comprehensive system for organizing their consciousness and achieving self realization. They have basically forced themselves to the peak of the right hand path and now they're on this, they're on the brink of the left hand path. And they don't even know where to begin because they don't know what has happened as a result of taking this drug. And so they get stuck in a state of ego death. And what's really sinister about this is when your ego dies, your physical body wants to follow, everything wants to follow. So you begin to feel numb, you begin to feel detached. Derealization. Reality begins to crumble. Because your rootedness in the Muladhara, your connection to the blood body, it's dissipating. You do great damage to the Sahasra, which is the seat of the spirit. You do great damage to your subtle body when you expose it to such an intense experience without the proper preparation. It's just like running a marathon when you've been sitting on the couch for five years straight, haven't done any sort of endurance exercise at all. You get up and run a marathon, you're going to hurt yourself. It's the same with powerful psychedelics. They can be used effectively, but it has to be in the proper ritual context. And something like a Thelemite birthday party is not the proper ritual context. To utilize something like 5 Meo DMT, you need to have a slow buildup, building a foundation to protect yourself. This is why in Kundalini, we start at the Muladhara. You have to establish a firm foundation in the body before you advance to more of a contemplative state. By the time you reach ego death, you should have an awareness of all the elements of the self so that when your connection to the ego is shattered, you can pick up the pieces and you can put it back together effectively instead of having to start with this wrecked, subtle body. Okay, so we also have olfactory hallucination, which is the hallucination of smell. We have auditory hallucinations, visual hallucinations. All of these forms of hallucination and disassociation. These are all just aspects of the subtle body, subtle sense and ego death. Which is. It's funny because psychiatry considers things like depersonalization, derealization, disassociation to be comorbidities of hppd. But they are primary effects of the psychedelics. I mean, a lot of these psychedelics, they're intended to create a condition of depersonalization, derealization. That's what is advertised. You're going to kill your ego, and that's what you're experiencing with that depersonalization. Okay? I have experienced all of these symptoms very intensely that I have mentioned so far in this talk. And after my childhood and teen years with all this heavy psychedelic use, especially in the context of the use of those psychedelics, the ritual context, which was very intense. I basically felt like a wreck. My mind was in shambles. My spirit was an open wound, my body was broken. I was an emotional mess. I was a wreck. I had to rebuild myself. So I separated myself from the left hand initiation that I was subjected to from the age of 7 until my early adulthood, and I began practicing Satchananda Yoga through the Bihar School. Now, Guru Satyananda was very attractive to me because what he was teaching was a form of Shakta tradition that offered a direct path to asceticism that was not dogmatic. And this resonated with me because of my foundations in the Left Hand Path. I did not want to practice a dogmatic Hindutva modern yoga. I already understood the essentials of Tantra, I understood the essentials of yoga. But I needed a guru who offered a pathway to clarity and to purification. That's what I found through Satyananda in the BR school. Now, I was not formally initiated into the VR School into Satyananda Yoga because I had major disagreements with the end result of the practice and a lot of Satyananda's interpretations of things. But that's okay. You don't have to agree with everything that the guru teaches in order to benefit from the guru. You don't have to be directly initiated into the tradition in order to take what you need from it. And what I took from Satyananda Yoga was a deep appreciation for asceticism. So I'm going to go through step by step how I was able to overcome the symptoms of HPPD that I was experiencing. And like I said, I was not diagnosed with hppd, but I definitely experienced all these symptoms and others as well that I didn't even mention. But basically, I realized, I recognized early on that. That what I was experiencing was not mental illness. Yes, the mind was injured, but this was not limited to the mind. This was a spiritual disease. This was also. There was a physical element to it. There was an emotional element. My entire body was injured by this experience. And so I had to take the necessary steps to rebuild myself. Okay, so first I recognized the necessity of asceticism. If I was going to rebuild my consciousness, I had to do so from as sober of a position as possible. So I practiced strict asceticism. No caffeine, very little refined sugar, no alcohol, no tobacco, no nicotine at all. And I abstained from any sort of drugs that were not absolutely medically necessary. So no Tylenol, no ibuprofen, no sleeping pills, nothing like that. And I could have used sleeping pills because the effects of the psychedelics were such that I had many sleepless nights. It was bad. I was in really bad shape. I cannot emphasize enough how bad of shape I was in as a result of the psychedelics. It was rough. But I realized, as I said, that I had to operate From a sober position, in order to rebuild my consciousness, I could not have interference from something like caffeine or something like nicotine. And the reason is because when you are trying to understand what has happened as a result of the psychedelic use, when you are trying to understand what alterations have occurred within your consciousness, you have to have as clean of a slate as possible so that you cannot make a mistake or that there's a less of a likelihood that you'll make a mistake in attributing some aspect of your consciousness to a chronic channel that is inappropriate. So to clarify, if you're consuming alcohol, there's going to be a muladhara influence in your consciousness that would not otherwise be present. And so certain things that you're experiencing, you're going to be searching for a reason for that experience, and the reason is the alcohol. So you've got to get it out of the way because it's going to cover up what else is occurring. It's basically going to mask the subtle operations of your consciousness and make it far more difficult for you to understand yourself. So asceticism is extremely important. If you want to heal yourself from the damage that was done by psychedelics. And it's not just psychedelics. I mean, what I'm speaking of is applicable to any sort of substance use or even any sort of ritual magic that has led to some harm in your consciousness. You've got to operate from. From an aesthetic foundation. I also started to only take cold showers. And the reason I did this was because it built discipline and it gave me a natural source of energy which I needed. You can become exhausted quickly if you're experiencing HPPD because so much of your energy is being directed towards the contemplative aspect of the self. If you have a physical injury, like, let's say you broke your arm, your body is directing blood, it's directing nutrients to your arm to heal your arm. There's less resources to go around to the rest of your body so it can drain you of your energy. If you're severely injured, if you've got cancer or some serious illness like that, you're going to have some lethargy because your body is directing energy in a manner that's not ideal. It's not efficient. It's not as efficient as it could be. The same happens with a mental injury or a spiritual injury, excuse me, injury. Your body is directing prana to the mind, or it's directing prana to the spirit. It's trying to heal these things, and you can exhaust yourself in the mind. And you can exhaust yourself in the spirit, just as you can in the physical body. So it's important to be aware of that and generating energy internally, opening up the energetic pathways, the chronic channels that are available to you that are covered up by things like caffeine and sugar. Opening these up through a practice like taking cold showers, this kicks your body into high gear. It gets the engine started. And you're going to need to draw from those natural energy sources if you're trying to assess consciousness from a sober position. So the cold showers were an important part of this. Now with hppd, there's a lot of mental disturbance. You can develop ocd, obsessive thoughts, which I did. You can develop disturbing sensations in the body. You can be distracted by the visual snow or any other hallucination that might result from the damage that has been done. Most of us are in a reactive state. I was taught One pointed meditation first when I was younger, thrown directly into one point of meditation. I was not taught kriya. Kriya is something that I integrated later. The one pointed meditation, which I've spoken about in the past, it is not conducive to an efficient use of prana, an efficient use of energy. Because if you're constantly monitoring everything in your environment, this takes energy. Direct my awareness to that, to this, and then I have to throw it away, get it out of my consciousness. This takes a lot of energy. If you are experiencing hallucinations or strange sensations in your body, this becomes distracting. And if you're operating from one pointedness, as soon as you see some hallucination, you're going to draw your awareness to it. You're going to have to forcefully remove it from your awareness, or you feel some sensation in your body, you're going to have to throw it out, throw your awareness away from that sensation. So this is exhausting and it's just not sustainable. So I realized that I had to apply the Kriya approach in meditation. And the Kriya approach is just as I've said in lectures in the past, it's a passive form of awareness. So I spent hours sitting in Padmasana and allowing all of the disturbing sensations, all the hallucinations, all of the obsessive thoughts to come to me. And I didn't try to push them away. I didn't give into the rituals. Because one thing, if you develop something like ocd, you can develop rituals, you can develop little things that you perform to eliminate disturbing thoughts, disturbing experiences. And I had to sit in padmasana and trust that if I remained passively aware of these things and I allowed them to sit in my awareness, that eventually I would desensitize myself to these disturbances. This is an exposure therapy technique. Basically, it's much older than psychiatry. It's much older than exposure therapy as a psychiatric practice. This is an ancient yogic technique. And in this Kriya Yoga, you are bringing yourself to a state of meditation that you can maintain. So, okay, now I might still be having these hallucinations. I might still be experiencing these strange sensations in my body, derealization, depersonalization, but I'm not disturbed by them. And that's the key. You've got to remove the disturbance. You've got to be able to live with the stimuli and not react to it. That's the beginning. And it takes a long time. It took me a long time to be able to not react to these things. It was painful. I had to trust the process. I had to trust that Guru Satyananda was correct, that if I applied the Kriya meditative approach, I would be able to free myself from these disturbances. And he was correct. And so I practiced Kriya. Now, Kriya was the foundation. While I was practicing Kriya, I was also in a heavy trataka practice. I had been in a heavy trataka practice since I was a child, so I was very familiar with trataka. But my application of trataka was from a one pointed standpoint. When I started integrating the Kriya meditation, this changed my trataka practice. So instead of focusing very intensely on the candle flame and then recreating the candle flame in my mind's eye, what I did was I would apply the Kriya approach and I would watch the flame, close my eyes, let the disturbing things come to me. And that's fine. I was able to not react. I was able to remove the disturbance. I was also able to start to willfully manifest images more effectively than when I had been operating in the one pointed system. So this greatly increased my ability to generate psychic symbols. I had already been generating psychic symbols through a form of antarmona. It was not the six stage form. It was a different form of antarmana since childhood. The Kriya approach once again drastically improved my ability to manifest psychic symbols. Now, for those of you who are seeking to treat your HPPD symptoms, you've got to start with the asceticism and follow it up with meditative exercise. Trataka. With the Kriya Approach and Tarmana Stage one, I have guides to the trataka practice and the antarmana practice, stage one and stage two on the Patreon. So if you're listening this on Patreon, you could find that. And you've got to start with those practices. You've got to understand what kriya is and how to apply it. Okay. As you advance through the methods of antarmana, as I did, you begin to learn how to silence the mind. Antarmana means inner silence in Sanskrit. So the goal is a silent mind. And from a silent mind, you can greatly improve your ability to craft psychic symbols. These psychic symbols are effective. We are dealing with the ajna. We are dealing with subtle space. So manipulation of subtle space is necessary if you're going to fix the damage that was done there. But before you are able to effectively manipulate subtle space, you have to have a foundation in the mind. Now, I realized very quickly with my trataka and my kriya practice that much of my mental matrix, my mental framework, had been shattered by these experiences. And so I had to ground myself. I had to understand the fabric of reality. This was very difficult. The mind is a very tricky thing. What I had to do was I had to develop a functional understanding of what the cosmos is from an intellectual standpoint. Now, I had been reading Western and Eastern philosophy from a very young age, even before I began my formal initiation. So I was well versed in Western philosophy and Eastern esotericism on this subject. However, being in an altered state of consciousness, where the foundation of your mind is broken down, you can slip into delusion, you can slip into confusion. And I was experiencing this because there was certain aspects of my mental matrix that had crumbled. They had broken down. And this led me into some pretty crazy rabbit holes. I'm talking really crazy shit. Like, at one point, I had some type of breakdown in my practice where I intensely embraced this sort of gnostic Christianity for a brief time. This was part of my exploration of consciousness. In dealing with this mental matrix, I threw that aside very quickly. It was just a. It was just a mind exercise, basically. And I underwent many of these mind exercises because I had to rebuild my understanding of belief, of awareness of how the cosmos is structured. And that takes time. But you can fast track this. You can fast track this by understanding essential things about nature and understanding that the principle of as above, so below determines the nature of our cosmos. There are so many shortcuts now that I have compiled to understanding the nature of the cosmos that I've included in this school a lot of these shortcuts I reached because I had to reconstruct that mental matrix. So in deeply assessing the nature of the cosmos, I was able to understand, okay, here's a solid foundation for why I should believe this in this context. Here's how I can assess the reality of this versus this. It began with an application of symbolic logic. If your mind is really injured as a result of psychedelics, you've got to develop your reasoning skills, you've got to develop a capacity for symbolic logic. And symbolic logic is a healing activity. If you can learn symbolic logic, how to write proofs, how to read proofs, this is going to be healing for your mind. So I did a lot of that. I practiced a lot of symbolic logic. And then from there, I began to assess the nature of certain things, reassess the nature of the chakras. I came to many important realizations through this process, such as the identification of rooted consciousness as an aspect of the cosmos. This is a direct result from the work that I did to overcome hppd. So you've got to work your mind, you've got to keep your mind clarified, and you have to begin to recognize the difference, the energetic difference between what is intellectual, what is of the Vishuddhi, and what is spiritual, what is of the Sahasra. And meeting at that middle point in the Ajna, you can begin to sort things out. And that's what I did. I began to sort things out. Now, how did I sort things out? Well, first off, I had to recognize what experiences were coming from my mind and what were coming from the spirit. The way I did that was by operating within the Vishuddhi and then operating within the Sahasra willfully. And then while I was in the Vishudi, I did a lot of mind mapping. Now, mind mapping exercises allow you to identify how your mind relates to the physical body, how your mind relates to emotions, sensuous elements, all of these things. And you can begin to explore, okay, this expression of intellect, this is stimulated by this experience in the body. Okay, I can identify how my mind is interacting with the Muladhara or the physical body, or how it's interacting with the Svadhisthana and the sensuous element. And I can start to map these things out. Eventually, you can begin to map out, or you can begin to understand what the Vishudi is, what it really deals with. When you know the nature of the Vishuddhi, you can contrast it with something like the Ajna or something like the Sahasra, and you can Begin to categorize things. Categorization of consciousness is part of mind mapping, but it extends to mapping of the body or the physical body mapping of emotions. And this we do through Kundalini. Now, the intensity of the Kundalini exercise is really dependent upon the damage that has been done. If you have very intense maladjustment in each of these states, it's going to take a little while to identify what has occurred, to really categorize things effectively. But mind mapping helps. And there's many methods of mind mapping. I'm not going to go into all of them this evening because it would take too long. But that's definitely something I'll talk about in a future talk. Okay. So psychic symbol awareness. I began to realize that there were certain spiritual influences involved in HPPD that required expulsion. Now you can learn to silence your mind through antarmount. And that's how you can expel thoughts. You can. You can halt obsessive thoughts through antarmana. You can reach inner silence. You can reach peace and tranquility. But if there is a spiritual influence, if there is some kind of entity involved in what you're experiencing, and for some people there is an entity involved, there are subtle influences outside of the self. That's when you need to start learning how to operate in subtle space and how to address these issues. I learned how to spirit walk when I was very young, or astral project, whatever you want to call it. But when I developed higher capacity for psychic symbol awareness or creation in Kriya meditation, I was able to create conditions within subtle space that allowed me to set up barriers. These are psychic barriers to spiritual influence that was negative. You can do this if you operate in subtle space enough. Once you have established a firm enough foundation in the mind, grounding in the mind, it is safe to begin to explore subtle space. So basic spirit walking exercises, lucid dreaming and meditative exercises where you are interacting directly with subtle space without actually entering subtle space. It's from there that you can start to establish boundaries. And you can learn how to utilize the resources of the spirit in order to combat negative influences. The same way that you would erect a brick wall to keep some type of pest off of your land. You can do this in the contemplative realm, you can do this in subtle space. But you've got to know how to build the wall. And you can't learn how to build that wall until you build up the fundamentals of psychic symbol creation. Which, as I said, is a result of intensive antarmana practice. Now Another important aspect of clarifying my spirit was deity work. I practiced bhakti on deities that provided me with strength in order to overcome these challenges. Protective deities Mahakali being the primary deity that I worked with for many years, I chose Mahakali because I was naturally drawn to her, but also because she is the remover of obstacles and she is a great protective force. She's a grounding force. She's associated with the muladhara, the blood. And so by accessing Mahakali, I was able to begin to rebuild the foundation in my body. I could not effectively operate a physical regimen without first dealing with the problems with my mind, because I just could not bring myself in line to actually stick to my physical practices the way I had whenever I was younger. So once I was able to re establish this grounding in my mind, and then through bhakti with the Mahakali, begin to connect to my blood again, that's when I really got serious about asana practice. And it's important to understand that any health in the body in the present yuga begins with the physical body. It begins with the blood. So you've got to do the body work. You've got to develop body awareness, you've got to exercise. Exercise is going to give you the energy. It's going to give you the foundation, the strength to begin to heal. And when you are in asana practice, you start to develop an even deeper understanding of the difference between the physical world and the subtle world, which gives you even more power over the subtle experience and allows you to begin to decide what subtle influences you want to allow in and what you want to eliminate. If you are able to reach transcendence on the right hand path and recreate the conditions of ego death, this is the ultimate goal. This is maybe not accessible for everybody, but for those who are able to do it, practicing Right Hand Path Yoga with the goal of recreating a clear light experience, and this is especially important for people who've utilized a really, really strong psychedelic like 5 Meo DMT. If you can recreate the condition of ego death and contextualize it as part of a formal practice like Kundalini Yoga, then you will be able to realize what actually occurred when you had that experience. And you'll begin to heal the damage that was done in the spirit. Understanding awareness, that is the greatest medicine to the spirit, and that is the medicine that you take whenever you reach that point of transcendence willfully, willfully, as part of a sober ascetic path. Finally, if you reach this point of transcendence, you can begin the left hand path towards self realization. And in self realization, you can realize your Dharma. And you can integrate all of the lessons that you have learned through this experience in order to empower yourself. When we are damaged by something like psychedelics or when we are damaged by some magic practice or, you know, physical abuse, sexual abuse, any kind of abuse that you can experience, there is a path to empowerment, There is a path to overcoming. We recognize this path in yoga. We utilize every experience as a potential source of power, of realization of Dharma. And so even when you're at your darkest depths and you feel like there's no hope, and I've been there many times, if you can bring yourself to your heart, if you can bring yourself to the seat of will, and you can have faith in yourself, there are pathways to overcoming all things. There are pathways to understanding, developing awareness of all things. So if you're listening to this right now and you have experienced HPPD or some other great injury to the self, know that there is a way to heal. If you're willing to take control of yourself and step foot on the path to Dharma, the path to power.