# The Right-Hand Path Part 5 - Anahata

Okay, I say high voltage because tonight I'm going to talk about the Anahata. The Anahata, for those of you who don't know, is my home state of consciousness. And actually I am the only one rooted in the Anahata in the whole school right now. Just crazy. We used to have a couple people rooting the Anahata. I'm the last man standing. So I've experienced the full spectrum of the Anahata throughout my life. And the Anahata is a really interesting chakra to discuss because it has no adversarial state except for itself. Basically, the Anahata is its own worst enemy. And so everyone who is rooted in the Anahata experiences this intense struggle with the self. And I'm not saying that other people don't experience struggle because everybody experiences struggle, but I'm talking about a specific type of struggle and that is the struggle with the will as the core expression of the spectrum of the Anahata. Because if you're rooted in the Manipura, then you can shift to the Vishuddhi, there's a cooling effect. If you root in the Svada Sthana, you can shift the Ashda, same concept. If you root the Muladhara, you can shift the Sahasra. And you have that opposite side. But with the Anahata, it's more like a dial. And the elemental nature of the Anahata is electricity. So with this dial, you're determining how much electricity are you putting out, how much are you taking in? Are you going to reduce yourself to a very small flow or cut off the flow of electricity altogether, or are you going to turn it up to 11 and just throw lightning bolts? And it's important when working with the Anahata on the right hand path to recognize that your specific expression of lightning, of electricity is going to be highly dependent upon your emotional nature. Because the Anahata is a rajas state and it is associated with passion, pure passion, undistilled. It is the raw expression that grants you the ability to recognize the core of who you are. The Anahata, it's a core expression of your nature because it has to do with willpower and it has to do with purity in your emotional state. And emotions are not the entirety of one's being, but they make up a large portion of the self. They're one of the four major elements of the self, including body, mind and spirit. So the emotional center is the thumos and the pure expression of emotion that you find in the Manipura, which is very Explosive differs from what you find in the anahata, which is steady, very steady, because the anahata does not have the adversarial state of contemplation. It is not inherently active and it's not inherently contemplative. It is the midpoint, the relational point. And due to the fact that it is a relational point, the anahata is the place where you can recognize your balance between the various elements of the self. How much mind do you possess naturally? How much spirit, how much of a connection to your blood do you possess naturally? The purity of that balance is brought to one's awareness when operating within the anahata. Now, when I say balance, I need to be clear that I'm not talking about some sort of flattening of energy. Because when most people think about balance, they think about bringing everything to a midpoint. When I say balance in the anahata, for one, I'm talking about the combination of energetic expression. Because we all have the chakras active within us at all times in some type of balance, natural balance. And we can get thrown out of our natural balance. We all have the Vishudi, we all have the Sasha, we all have these elements within us, but our rooted state colors the way that we experience these elements. And our rooted state is our primary expression. Now, just for an example, you can be rooted in the muladhara, and you can have a very active Sahasra element, but you're experiencing it from the base of the muladhara, so it colors that expression. But another person rooted in the muladhara can have very little Sahasra expression. Maybe they have more of a manipura expression within their makeup. Now it's the manipura expressed through the muladhara. So it's different from if a Manipura person experienced their own state of consciousness, or. Or if a Svadhisthana person experienced the manipura. But the muladhara expression of the manipura, if it's very intense within an individual, that creates a specific combination of energy that helps to create a unique individual. It's alchemy. And when you're operating from the anahata, you become very aware of the nature of that balance within the self. So it's not that all of the sudden, all of the elements of the self become flat in the anahata, and we bring them all into this point of gray. It's more like when you get to the anahata, suddenly you'll become aware of the fact that you have this really intense mind that's present within Your mix, or you have this really intense connection to the blood that's present. That may not be your rooted state, but it's certainly a very strong expression within you. And it's from the anahata, which is the place of will, that we can begin to direct prana towards specific elements of the self. In order to electrify those elements, we are injecting a dose of electricity into specific parts of the body. Now, this creates imbalance. Because the anahata is not just about bringing things into balance. It's also about bringing things into willful imbalance. So, for example, let's say that I am an individual who is naturally very physical. I have a strong connection to the blood body, but I have to pass and an exam, a written exam. And so I have to willfully direct my prana towards the mind. I have to create a willful imbalance within myself so that I can utilize the power of the mind in order to achieve a specific outcome. Well, the process of directing prana to the mind and creating that willful imbalance begins in the anahata. Because it's through the application of will that we choose who we want to be. And we can willfully align ourselves with our nature, with our natural balance of the various elements. Or alternatively, we can will ourselves into complete imbalance. Now, if we're willing ourselves into complete imbalance, is this necessarily adharmic? Is this against our nature? No, not necessarily. Because bringing yourself out of your natural balance can allow you to achieve things which serve a higher purpose. Like, for example, if you're placed in a condition where your means of preserving your natural balance or living as close to your dharma as possible. Which, by the way, if you're living as close to your dharma as possible, that means you're pursuing your dharma, which means you are living dharmically. If the means by which you achieve this is to direct your prana towards a point of imbalance, then it is in fact a dharmic action. It is, in fact, in alignment with your dharma. So if it may be that I'm a physical person, but I've got to use my mind, and so I've got to will myself towards that expression. This is the relational aspect of the anahata within the self. It's taking this point and shifting energy over to this point, directing the flow, turning the dial up, turning the dial down. And that's why the anahata sits at the center of the chakras. Now, that which is present internally is also present externally. The way in which the anahata functions inside of the self is the way in which it expresses itself in society, in personal relationships. The Anahata is the most relational state of consciousness, not just within the self, but also outside the self. And so this is why individuals rooted in the Anahata tend to find themselves in positions of leadership or social organization, because these individuals have a natural ability to act as magnets for others, but also to direct energy outward to other people, to identify the optimal flow of prana between individuals, and to recognize points of balance and imbalance within others so that the proper flow of electricity can be placed into the social order or into other people in order to bring them to their dharmic expression. So individuals who are rooted in the Anahata tend to be teachers as well. They tend to be political leaders or just leaders within family environments, community leaders. Now, that doesn't necessarily mean that these individuals are going to be effective in their leadership role, because it's very easy to direct the flow of electricity in the wrong direction. It's very easy to apply too much electricity and it's very easy to apply too little. And so it's important when anyone, not just individuals rooting the Anahata, but anyone on the right hand path, when they're working with the Anahata to account for their flow of electricity, how much energy is being put out, how much energy is being received? And when I'm training my students on the right hand path in the Anahata, my students complete an account of their energetic expression in the Anahata. They do this by making a list of all of the people, all of the concepts, all of the things that are significant to them in their life. And they go through that list and they practice meditation upon each point, and they determine, how much of my energy am I giving to this thing? How much am I receiving? Am I giving too much? Am I receiving too little? Am I receiving too much? Am I giving too little? Have I brought myself into proper alignment with all of these aspects of the realm that I exist within? In Western esotericism, the Anahata is associated with the king. And so the king, being the core relational aspect of the realm, must decide how to direct resources effectively. If the king fails to direct resources properly, the kingdom will fall, everything will crumble. And what we are seeing within modernity, especially in our contemporary age, is a lack of effective kingship. Because for the most part, those individuals who have found themselves in leadership positions have failed to direct energy properly to preserve the health of the kingdom. Most of those who have found themselves in positions of leadership have failed to do one important thing, and that is to break the jar. Now, what do I mean when I say break the jar? Within the Natya Shastra, also known as the Natya Veda or the fifth Veda by some, I consider it to be the fifth Veda. Within the Natya Veda, we have a chapter that discusses the construction of the stage. And of course, this is a metaphor, because the stage and the dramatic production that occurs on the stage is society. And it is the relationships that develop between people within society which is represented on the stage. Now, there are pillars of the stage that keep everything stable. There are various actors, there are individuals involved in the production of the play that is to be presented on the stage. Society is one grand stage, and politics is a dramatic production. And within this chapter of the Natya Veda we have the concept of the jar. The jar is a vessel that holds the sacrifices which are given by the people in order to fund the production that is presented on the stage in order to fund the state. So, for example, this is the taxation. This is the adoration. This is the blood, sweat and tears that are given by the people who populate the kingdom, who populate the state in order to keep it alive, keep it healthy, preserve the vitality of the system. The state is nothing without the people who populate it. And the king, assuming this magnetic role, is able to bring all of these people together under one system. A shared vision, a shared purpose, a shared will to power. And he collects all of the hopes and dreams of these people within his kingdom in this jar. And this jar is the source of his power. And the more energy that he can collect in this jar, the more powerful that he becomes. Until the day arrives when it is time for the king to break the jar and share the wealth of the kingdom. Because the entire time that the king has held this jar, he has accumulated this energy which he has sucked up from the lamb, vampirically taken energy from others, pouring in. Now, hopefully, under the best conditions, this energy was given voluntarily, willfully, by the people. Under some circumstances, the king must forcibly take that energy from others for the betterment of the state, the kingdom. But regardless, the jar must be filled in order for the empire to be preserved. But what happens when the king fails to break the jar and share in his power? The land begins to dry up, to wither, and the pillars that preserve the stage begin to crumble. Because the soil lacks the necessary nutrients, the necessary stability to hold the pillars and the actors on the stage, they lose their creative spark, because there is no foundation to support their art. And the engineers who produce the stage and protect it, they have nothing to uphold because the people are suffering, because the artists have lost their purpose for creating. And so they become like Ronan. And they wonder aimlessly. And the king is left in an empty throne room with no admiration, no wealth. Everything falls to rot because the king became too greedy. He remained in a receptive position for too long. The Anahata is like the lion. The lion struggles. The adolescent male lion bites tooth and claw to build his pride. Great struggle. And then once he has built his pride, he receives. He sleeps under the shade of the tree while meat sustenance is brought to him, and he watches his kingdom unfold. But if the lion fails to stand up and fight, to become active when necessary, then his kingdom falls and he will be usurped. And this is one of the great challenges of the Anahata. To construct your kingdom in an active sense, to build the stage, set the pillars on a firm foundation of good soil. Find the actors who will populate your stage and bring joy to everyone. Find the engineers who have the knowledge of how to construct the stage and how to defend it. Find all of these people, bring them into your pride, and ensure that they are given the necessary tools, the necessary flow of electricity, the necessary power in order to fulfill their dharma. Now there's a time in which you have to stop being active in your expression. Because if you are too active, if after you have established your stage, you do not rest, then you will micromanage everything. You'll become a tyrant, and you will exhaust yourself, and you will exhaust the people around you. And like I said before, if after you have constructed this grand stage and you do become like the old lion and rest under the tree, and allow those individuals who you have empowered to exist in beautiful expression of the self within your kingdom. If you rest for too long and you become decadent and you take, take, take, and fail to break the jar, the whole thing falls out from underneath you, and you'll be knocked off your throne. You can be knocked off your throne in many different ways. You can exhaust yourself. You can give too much and then be knocked off your throne. You can take too much, be knocked off your throne, you can turn inward on yourself and begin to doubt your willpower and then fail to act appropriately. All of these are threats in the heart that you must become aware of, because each one of you has a heart. Each one of you has your own little kingdom that you are building, and each one of you can be knocked off of your throne. So you got to be aware of. Of how you're directing your energy, how you're directing your electricity. Because there will always be someone waiting in the wings to knock you down and take your position. Always. And so you have to sit tall, sit strong, always on your throne. And don't forget that the Anahata, the heart, while it is the place of wrath, it is also the place of healing. And so you cannot be in a constant state of conquering, in a constant state of destruction. At some point, you have to stop and you have to recognize that it is time to enjoy the fruits of your labor. It is time to allow yourself to heal, and it is time to heal others. Finding the balance between these things and applying the proper action at the proper time, that is the effective use of willpower. Now, there is another aspect of the Anahata that must be understood on the right hand path, and that is the relationship between will and identity. Identity is rooted in the will. Ultimately, we exist because we will ourselves into existence. Without application of will, we would cease to be. And so our very existence is reliant upon our application of will, our will to power. Power simply being the expression of Dharma. And one of the great traps of our present age is the suppression of willpower, suppression of passion within a dispassionate environment. Like I said last week in my discussion on the Manipura, we exist within the age of the Vishuddhi, which is the age of intellect, the age of mind. And within the age of mind, there is a general coolness. Now this, of course, has a very detrimental impact on individuals rooted in the Manipura and all of our expressions of the Manipura. But it also impacts the Anahata, because the Anahata is a Raja state. It is a passion state, a place of fire. And within this airy condition that surrounds us, intense expressions of passion, of romance, are often considered to be too much. And so oftentimes, people will take half measures in their life. Rather than going full bore in pursuit of that which they find beautiful. They settle for less. They sell themselves short. But the secret to mastering the Anahata is to never take half measures. You must express purity. You must choose just the right amount of electricity and apply it without hesitation. You must express the self fully. Because if you take a half measure, if it doesn't come from the heart, if the heart is not allowed to be expressed to its fullest extent, it will fail. So you must find what truly inspires passion within you and never give it up. Never give up 1cm of territory in your heart. Because the second that you do that, you are turning your back on who you are fundamentally. And so how can you practically achieve this? How can you tap into the purest possible expression of the self? In applying the will to power, you have to select something that you are intensely passionate about, something you believe in, an identity that you wish to assume, and you have to live it. And it has to be something that challenges you, challenges the scope of expression within you. If you want to be a painter, call yourself a painter. Don't become a graphic artist. If you want to be a writer, if you want to be a novelist, do it. Call yourself a writer. Don't call yourself blogger. Don't say, oh, I'm a Taco Bell chef. But, you know, my side thing that I do is I'm a writer. No, you're a fucking writer. I don't care if you have to work at Taco Bell to support your passion. You are not a Taco Bell employee. That's not who you are. At your core, you're a writer. So call yourself a writer. If you want to become a God, admit it to yourself. Say it. Say, I want to become a God. Because you will not know the full potential of your willful expression until you can admit to yourself who you are and who you want to be. And then make a public show of it, make a display of it. Tell people, I am an artist. I am a painter. I am a writer. I want to become a God. I want people to remember me forever. I want my essence to echo through eternity. I want these things, and I will pursue them passionately. And I will not settle for anything less than this. Like Aphrodite, I will lustfully pursue Aries. And I will break all covenants that bind me to anything less than what I am totally passionate about. And if you can do this, you can build the anchor in your heart that will be your bridge to a new life, to reincarnation. After you have achieved the peak of the mountain on the right hand path.