# rtt lecture - The Conquering African Magical Strategy

African magic. In order to understand African magic, you have to understand its metaphysical root in terms of consciousness, human consciousness. We would consider African magic to be muladhara magic or blood magic. Now, the African race is a muladhara race, an earth race deeply connected to the blood. And ultimately, all African magic is at its foundation, shakta magic or mother magic. These are mother cults, and mother cults are muladhara cults. They are blood cults. Now, in order to understand the nature of the mother cult, you have to have contrast. And so opposing the mother cult, we have the father cults or the cults of Shiva in the Indian tradition. So the father cults are the cults of divine masculinity that are of the water, of the spirit. And as I said, this is in opposition to the blood. So the blood cults are very materialistic, and the father cults are very transcendent. And so what would be an example of a father cult? Well, the father cult would be represented by something like the Norse tradition in its purest form. Now, there is an Aryan form of the Norse tradition, just as there is an Aryan form of the African tradition. And there's an Aryan form of basically any tradition, because Arianism and Judaism are not connected explicitly to any blood body or spirit body. So they are mobile traditions. And this is why, for example, you see this tradition of Jewish magicians infiltrating different cultures, such as the spread of Christianity through Europe. They are able to create Jewish forms of pagan ritual, like, for example, Christmas, which is a Jewish form of yule. The Aryans do the same thing. Like I said, the Norse tradition is not explicitly Aryan. It is extremely transcendent, and it is a father culture. But there is an Aryan form of the Norse tradition. And the reason that you have this adaptation is because Arianism is of the manipura. It is a creative cult, a fire cult. And so you are able to apply this fire within many different cultural expressions. The same for the Jewish cults. These are cults of mind and cults of the wind and the word. And you'll see that when we have an expression of a Jewish cult that has infiltrated another culture, typically you will see an elevation of the law or the word or some type of order that is very legalistic. This is an aspect of the vishudi, which is the rooted home of the Jewish cults. We would call these the cults of the wind. We have the cults of the fire. And then with the father cults, it's the cult of the water and the mother Cults, cult of the earth. And the African traditions in their purest expression, not combined with any other expression. This is a cult of the earth. So with the African tradition being a cult of the earth, we can begin to see how the African tradition might express itself in the current yuga. We are in the Kali Yuga. And just as I ranked these magical traditions based upon their rooted consciousness, you can also rank them within the yugas. We have the satya yuga, which represents the time of spirit or water. And at this point in time, the father cult is the dominant cult, the cult of oneness and unification. So this would be the time of the all father. Then we have in the Treta Yuga the beginning of the expression of the mind as the dominant position within the cosmic hierarchy. And so this would be the time of the word. And this is when something like the Jewish cult would dominate the cult of the wind. Then we have the flood. The flood is the centralized point. And floods can either be creative, such as the filling of space with material things, what we saw with the big Bang, for example, or they can be destructive, such as the recent example of the devastating flooding in North Carolina. This is a destructive expression of the flood. Now, interestingly enough, you can see how when the flood directed towards the mother, it is a creative flood. It's like the breaking of the water and the birth of a child. This is the creative flood. And then if the flood is directed towards the father, it is a destructive flood, like the flood of Noah. So depending upon which direction the cycle is headed, the flood manifests in different ways. And the cult that is associated with this central point of the flood is Satanism or the Satan. And this is the center point of will, or the Anahata. This is the point of intersection between these magical cults. So you have satanists that are directed towards fatherly expressions of satanism. And then you have motherly expressions of satanism. The form of satanism that I practice is of a shakta mother cult form. So it is a creative satanism, essentially. And then you have the destructive satanism directed towards the father cult. So not all satanism is created equal. Just because someone is a satanist does not mean that they're going to get along with every other satanist. Now, as you're advancing towards the Tapara yuga, in the creative expression of the flood, you have the fire cult of the Aryans. This is the time where man walks side by side with the gods. This is the time of myth. Now, on the furthest end of the spectrum of the mother cults. And magic is a spectrum, by the way, you have the African tradition, the blood cults, vampirism, the, the extremely imminent cults which seek to uphold a permanent connection to earth and the material expression. And this is the Kali Yuga, the present Yuga. So the magical tradition that is most in alignment with the present Yuga, most compatible with the present Yuga is the blood cults or the African tradition, which is an extreme form of mother worship. Now what does that look like? Well, in the Kali Yuga, God is a whisper on the wind. God is expressed with great subtlety. In fact, God is expressed with such subtlety that most people would deny the existence of God if not for some type of socio cultural brainwashing. And even many of those individuals who call themselves Christians or Muslims or Jews, deep down, if you really question them, they are not really spiritual people. This is less the case in the third world, but certainly in the West. Most of the religiosity is a surface level religiosity. And keeping in step with the nature of the Kali Yuga, most of these people are expressing a religiosity that is extremely materialistic. Now, the African tradition is almost atheistic in its presentation, but it has been deeply misunderstood by anthropologists, by spiritualists who have tried to examine the African tradition through the lens of the European traditions. And this has led to some pretty insane confusions. Like for example, if you go into a metaphysical shop now, you are likely to find statues, African deities that look like Greek gods. They've been carved to look like Greek or Roman statue. And this is a great confusion because it eliminates one of the essential factors of African magic and that is the fetish. So the fetish is a material object that is utilized in worship. And this is extremely important in blood magic. In order to really access the core of blood magic, you need to practice fetish magic. Now, of course, in every other magical tradition, I'm talking Aryan tradition, Jewish tradition, the father cults, you have idols. You're not supposed to have idols in the Jewish cult, but you do have idols. And these idols are utilized in worship. And typically they are meant to be symbolic representations of the God or pranic force that the magician is attempting to access. However, in the African tradition, the idol or the fetish is the God is the God. There is no difference between the fetish and the God. The God exists in material form within the idol. And that is why when I go into someone's home and I see that they have African masks or some other kind of fetish on the wall. I really question why the fuck they have that in their house. Because these objects are extremely powerful. The African fetish is one of the most extremely powerful magical items that you can possess. Because blood magic, muladhara magic, especially within something like the African tradition, is extremely materialistic. And so the prana that is placed within an object in the African tradition represents itself through material means. If you have an African fetish, that is a real fetish used in ritual work in your home, you are housing the God that that fetish represents or the force, the demon, whatever that that object represents. And to touch one of these idols is to touch that God. That is the potency of muladhara blood magic. And so we can see the potency of this tradition in an example of the Odin. So the Odinala, very interesting name for this magical tradition. The Odinala is the traditional magic of the Igbo people of Nigeria. Now, the Igbo people are a very large African population and they're spread out through large areas in Africa. There's some in South Africa for sure. Large population in South Africa. And they practice odinala. Now what does odinala mean? Well, the root of odinala, the Odin part, means inside God, all consuming earth. Or you could say the all God. Very interesting. Because where else have we heard the name Odin associated with the all God? We have heard it in the Norse tradition. And as I said, the Norse tradition is the father cult expression, the opposite, the opposing force of the mother cult. African tradition, they exist on a spectrum. This is the muladhara Sahasra spectrum in terms of the chakras and rooted consciousness. So we have in the Scandinavian tradition, the God Odin, Odin the all father. Now let's look at the rest of this word Odinala, the second half of the word Ala a l A. This is the primary goddess within the Odinala tradition. Her name is Allah. She is the earth mother, the womb, the denier of rain. And so if you take the Odin and the Allah and you put them together, you have the all mother, you have the all consuming earth, the all consuming womb. And this is a very strong, pure representation of what African magic is all about. It is the all consuming mother or the all consuming earth. The African tribes traditionally, esoterically, are matriarchies. They are ruled by the mother cults. Now, of course, we have the influence of Islam within Africa, the influence of Christianity, and we have hybrid cults. And I already discussed that at the beginning of this lecture. But in its purest form, African magic is mother magic. It Is matriarchal. And so, in the example of the Odinala, we have a very strong goddess in Allah. Now, how is Allah worshipped? Well, we have human sacrifice. Human sacrifice has been practiced by the Igbo people for a very long time, and this was quite disturbing to the colonialists who tried to outlaw the practice. But human sacrifice is very important in blood magic, because if you want to access the fullest expression of blood magic, you have to be willing to access the most potent of blood, prana, which, in most cases is the blood of human beings. And so we see in these mother cults all throughout the world, an obsession with human sacrifice. Now, the mother cults are not just limited to Africa. There were mother cults in Europe before the spread of the indo Aryans. There were mother cults in south America, and there still are mother cults operating in south America. But one of the essential aspects of these cults is the human sacrifice, and we find this in vampirism as well. Yes, there are real vampires. They are very rare to encounter because, well, at least the highest initiate vampires, you can find lower initiate vampires all over the place. But the high initiate vampires are very, very rare to come by, because these are individuals who have given themselves so intensely to imminence that they have banished the spirit. They are not interested in cultivating the spirit, and so they throw themselves into pure mother worship. And through the consumption of blood, they are able to preserve their material form in this cosmos. They are able to remain in this yuga and possibly transcend this yuga in a material form. That is the ultimate goal of vampirism, and that is the ultimate goal in certain forms of African magic, Such as certain types of voodoo. Voodoo, by the way, is highly influenced by odinala. And, of course, we have, in addition to human sacrifice, fetish worship. Now, the fetish worship in African magic is quite interesting because it is difficult to transform the nature of a God. The closer you get to spirit. If you are able to manipulate the material in the present yuga and your God is in the material, then it follows that it is quite easy to shift the nature of your God. And one of the important aspects of African magic that needs to be understood Is the fact that these African tribes will often change the shape of an idol to fit a specific need of the tribe. And this is something that is common in Odinala. And in fact, the fetish worship that we see in the Odinala cults Is often directed against colonialism. There is a resistance to colonialism, but it's a very specific type of Resistance, a very special type of resistance. And in fact, we have a marioha who is the consort of Allah. He is the divine masculine representation within this tradition. Now, he is subservient to Allah. And something very interesting about the fetish of Amadioha is that he is almost always represented as having white skin. Now, very interesting, we see in some of the fetishes of Amadioha that they have been designed to appear like white colonialist men. And that is going to be very important. Remember that this needs to be emphasized. The fetish of a marioja is sometimes represented as a white colonialist male and also sometimes represented as a white linen flag that is raised and not allowed to touch the dirt unless certain rituals are conducted. Now, all of this is surrounded in the cult of Chukwu. So Chukwu is the central force of the Odinala tradition. And it is sort of like the underlying tying together force, the elemental force. And interestingly enough, the elements within the Odinala tradition are represented with what most would consider outside of the African tradition to be strange representations of masculinity and femininity. For example, in the Odinala tradition, the water spirit is thought to be a divine feminine spirit, which in most traditions is represented as divine masculine. And the earth spirit is also considered to be a divine feminine expression. So you have on both ends of the spectrum, the water and the earth divine feminine. Now, in the center here of the spectrum of consciousness, where we find fire and wind, we have these elements represented as divine masculine within the Odinalam. This is very interesting. Basically, what is being represented here is this all encompassing presence of the mother. All spirit is absorbed into the mother, and she has control over the flow of the spirit. This is why Allah is known as the denier of rain. Rain is the communication between the spirit and the earth in a material form. When we see rain, we are seeing the essence of spiritual prana come down to the earth and nourish the soil. This is also a metaphor for sperm nourishing the womb. Now, with Allah being the denier of rain, she has the capacity to reject the spirit and dominated. And this is extremely important to understand when we recognize the interplay between African magic and European magic, or specifically African magic and northern European magic. So before we discuss the interaction between the African tradition and the Norse tradition, let's talk about Allah in detail and what are her attributes? So Allah is the queen, and she is also the sacred land. And what does that mean? Well, the Igbo people recognize Allah as existing in the earth. In fact, she is the earth, the soil is her womb. So the land itself is considered sacred. You could say that the dirt is the temple. And there are also sacred groves within the Odinala tradition, just like we find sacred groves within the Odinic tradition within the Norse tradition. So with the land being sacred, there is a tie between the conduct of the Igbo people and the land. Allah is a goddess of morality. So if you behave against her authority, you are considered to be defiling the soil. And if you defile the soil, then you are denied certain rights. For example, those who have been found to defile the soil of Allah are not allowed to be buried in the sacred grove or be buried in the earth at all. Interestingly enough, the Odinala tradition states that when someone dies, if they are in good standing with the goddess, they are absorbed by her. And so the body is placed under the soil and is allowed to rot into the soil, sometimes in a sacred gr, sometimes not, sometimes just out in the soil. And this is what I mean by the materialistic, almost atheistic representation within African tradition. The idea is that you are returning to the soil. That is your goal. If you are of good standing, then you are advancing towards a return to the soil. So this is quite interesting because when you combine this with a recognition of the importance of the fetish and the fact that the God exists within the material thing, what we have here is essentially an atheistic cult that recognizes, however, the full divinity of the immanent expression. It's not as if they say that God doesn't exist, it's just that they say that God is with them all the time. God is the land, God is the idol, God is the blood. And that is the hallmark of the African magic. Now, with Allah, we have the absorption into the earth. And as I said, this is the primary goal. And she is a fertility goddess as well. So when a body is committed to the earth, the Igbo people recognize this as a fertilization process. So the body is returned to the soil. And this feeds the vegetation, or it just feeds the land. It feeds the goddess. It feeds the sacred ground. And this is the meaning of the sacred earth burial and a return to the earth as a return to the womb. Now, I'll come back to this later when I discuss the connection with the Scandinavian tradition. So, interestingly enough, one of the worst things that you can do in Odinala is kill a pregnant animal, because this animal is meant to symbolize the fertility of the sacred land. And so if you accidentally kill a pregnant animal in a hunt or something, like that this animal is often buried in the sacred grove or buried in the sacred land and given full funeral rites in order to appease the goddess. One other thing that should be known about Allah, actually, there's a couple things. Another thing that should be mentioned is that when a baby is born, there is an intense focus on heritage. And the umbilical cord is often buried under a sacred tree. And this sacred tree marks the homeland of the family. So we have this intense focus on heritage and the sacred tree. And this is something once again that we find in the Scandinavian tradition with Yggdrasil. But the sacred tree here is directed towards the mother, intensely directed towards the mother. And when you place the umbilical cord under the sacred tree, you are marking your territory, essentially, and you're stating that this bloodline is sacred and will be maintained. Now, Allah has an emissary, the python, the snake. And the python is the most important sacred animal in the Odinala tradition. So the python is worshipped openly by the Odinala practitioners. And the python is of course, deeply connected to the divine feminine expression within every grand tradition. The Jewish tradition recognizes the snake. In the Garden of Eden, you have the Nidhogg serpent gnawing at the roots of Yggdrasil in the Norse tradition. In the Indian tradition, you have the Kundalini serpent. So the serpent is very important and plays different roles depending upon the nature of the tradition. In the African tradition, the snake is all. The snake is the representation of Odinala, the earth. And sometimes in fetish representation of Allah, she is represented as having snakes for legs, or her lower body is a snake, a serpent, almost naga like. Now this is connecting the serpent aspect to the muladhara. Of course, the legs are associated with the muladhara. The lower half of the body is associated with the muladhara. So we have once again an intense connection to the serpent power or the mother cult power within this tradition. Now let's talk about Allah's consort, Amadioha. A Marioha is a representative of the collective force. Now, what do we mean by the collective force? Well, anthropologists who travel to Africa and absorb or absorb the tradition in the best way they can and observe the fetishes, they tend to see this collective representation as meaning like the solidarity of the tribe. But that's not the esoteric meaning of the collective within the cult of Amadioha. The collective representation within the cult of Marioha is entirely related to his nature. And what is his nature? He is the white ram, he is the light skinned one. He is the white Male. And when Igbo people assume the form of a marioha in ritual worship, they will cover their bodies in white paint, and oftentimes they'll put a red X across their forehead. And here we have the representation of Amadioha, the white man. Now, as I said earlier, sometimes he is represented in fetish as a white colonialist pith Helman, et al. And also he is sometimes represented as a white flag flying high above the tribe. So what is the collective aspect here? Well, what is really meant by this is the container, the collective container or the unifying aspect of the Sahasra, the crown. And in fact, Amadioha is often depicted wearing a large crown, a large, extended crown, which in every tradition is almost always a representation of the Sahasra, or the divine masculine expression. Now, it is the goal of Allah within this divine union to dominate Amadioha and establish the matriarchal position. This is the foundation of African magic, after all. But the way that she dominates and the way that this cult has evolved over time in reaction to colonialism is extremely fascinating and gives us a glimpse into the African magic strategy on a global scale. So before I get to this, I need to make a statement about competing magical schools. So there are shadow wars occurring all over the world, esoteric warfare that most people are not aware of. But the esoteric warfare is the most important warfare. If you want to know why Israel was established and the Jewish magicians within Israel were able to establish such a strong position, all you have to do is look at the history of Solomonic magic. Solomonic magic was esoteric warfare against the rest of the world, and it was the establishment of a very strong Jewish power structure, beginning with the first temple. But, of course, the Jewish magicians are not the only magicians vying for control. You have the Aryan magicians as well. Aryan magicians have been very successful throughout history, just as Jewish magicians have been very successful throughout history, and they've established cults. So you still have Aryan magicians in this esoteric war. You also have the father cults, the heavily transcendent cults, and these are represented in different forms. As I said, the purest representation of the Norse tradition is a heavily transcendent father cult. They have established rulership at different times. And then you have the mother cults vying for power. African magic is the most powerful expression of the mother cult, next to potentially European vampirism. So these are both extremely powerful and influential cults conducting esoteric warfare. Now, these wars occur in the shadows, and most people are Totally unaware of the depth at which these occult practices impact their lives. Some people try and touch upon this. They get, you know, to the very tip of the iceberg and they start exploring stuff like the Illuminati and the Freemasons and things like that. And I'm telling you that it goes much deeper than the Illuminati or the Freemasons. Although masonry is a respectable magical cult of the Luciferian order, but it goes much deeper than Freemasonry. And these esoteric wars that are waged, they have an influence on the exoteric world, a very strong influence. And don't think that the federal government in the United States or national governments and in other countries have not taken note of this. In fact, they all have very powerful magicians working for them and have been working towards cultivating the magical or esoteric aspect of their world orders for quite some time. Every great political leader throughout history, every great ruler, I should say, has had some magician working on his or her side in order to establish his power. So these magical trends are very important. And if you really want to understand how power operates within the world, you need to understand the shadow wars, the esoteric warfare that is occurring at any given time all across the globe and all these competing strategies. Now the Africans are a bit of a sleeper cult in esoteric warfare. It's funny because as I said, this is the Kali Yuga. So Muladhara magic, African magic is very easy to access. So they have kind of a leg up natural advantage in this esoteric warfare. But the Africans have found a way to represent themselves, the top level African magicians. And let me just make this clear. When I say Jewish magician, I am not saying that all Jews are involved in these magical practices. In fact, one of the tricks that the Jewish magicians have played is to attach their magical cult to a blood cult, which is not the essence of Jewish magic. Jewish magic has no blood foundation. Anyone can practice Jewish magic and not have a blood connection. Every Christian practices Jewish magic. It doesn't matter what their blood race is. Every Muslim also practices Jewish magic and there's many other people. Every Thelemite practices Jewish magic. And it really doesn't matter what their blood is. It's the same for Arianism. Arianism is not a blood magic and it's not related to a spiritual race either. Arianism is creative magic and anyone of any race can take on the Aryan tradition, the Aryan magic. When I say African magic, I'm speaking of the African magicians. But the African magic is deeply tied into the Blood expression of the African people because it is muladhara magic, it is blood magic. And so it is deeply linked to the African blood. If there is a spiritual race that is practicing a shared spiritual tradition, it would be the same thing, but on the opposite end of the spectrum. So now that I've clarified that, African magicians, powerful African magicians, have influenced the course of African history in such a way that the cult of Allah has been able to assume its role of the open womb all over the world. Now, what do I mean by the open womb? Well, remember, Amadioha is the consort of Allah. And one thing that needs to be understood about Amadioha is that he is a storm God. He is very similar to Zeus. Amadioha interacts with the earth through bolts of lightning. Now, esoterically, what do these bolts of lightning striking the earth represent? Well, they represent assault, sexual assault. They basically represent rape. And what we have here in the African magical tradition is a cult of rape. Now, let me be very clear. What I mean by that. What I mean is that esoterically speaking, there is a forceful aspect of sexual prana. And in this forceful aspect, we have an overcoming of the divine masculine expression by the womb. So how is this represented in practice? Well, let me give you an example. In the. In the antebellum south, there was a. In the United States, there was a major problem of slave rape. Now, in this cult of slave rape that formed, which is quite common, you had slave owners raping their slaves. And oftentimes this would lead to the birth of a mixed race child, half black, half white. Now, what has occurred here esoterically? Well, in the present Yuga, in the grossest form of magical expression, the material is going to destroy the spirit. So the blood really is thicker than water. Typically, this isn't always the case because you can transmute this. But in most cases, esoterically speaking, the blood is thicker than the water. Now, white Europeans are of a Sahasra racial body, so they are very close to transcendence in the spirit, in their racial formation, in their blood formation. What does that mean? Well, it means that the blood of white Europeans is quite weak when compared to the blood of Africans. Black Africans. Black Africans have this deep connection to Muladhar magic, and their blood is very strong. So in a pairing between an African and a white European, the African blood is going to dominate the white blood. And that is why in most of these mixed race pairings, the child that is a result of this union almost always will identify with their African blood over the white European blood. Such is the potency of the blood of the mother cult. Such is the potency of the cult of Allah. That when the womb is open and the rain falls into the earth, if that rain is of an intensely spiritual nature, it will be consumed, Absorbed and transformed by the earth. So now we know why Amadioha is often represented as a white colonialist. Because what did the white colonialists do in the eyes of the Igbo people, in the eyes of the African magician? What did they do? They raped the land. Now, Amadioha is the land. She is the sacred ground. And so they consider the conquering of their land by these white colonialists to be a rape of their mother goddess. But is this a defeat? No, this is not a defeat. Because the African magical strategy is a muladhara magical strategy. And it is based upon the absorption pain in order to transform the poison of pain into a medicine of overcoming. Now, think about this in terms of the manner in which African populations achieve power, political power. All across the globe, they achieve power in two critical ways. One is through the struggle. The struggle is the exposure of the African body to pain, to punishment. Think of the images of the civil rights protests in the American south, where young African men and women were being sprayed with fire hoses, beaten with billy clubs, lynched, shot, thrown. Rocks were thrown at them. Their churches were burned. They absorbed great physical damage. And what did they do with this physical damage? They transformed this physical damage into a cult of overcoming the black fist rising. And through this overcoming, they were able to achieve great empathy, great sympathy from certain groups of white Europeans, who then created a political container for their protection. So now we see why Amadioha is sometimes represented by the clean white flag flying above the tribe. Because one of the African survival strategies in terms of the use of African magic, is to create a condition where the white power structure protects, through the law and social services, the black race, the African race. That is one of the strategies that is utilized. Now, another strategy that is employed is cultural assimilation. So the material fetish of the African magician is very strong. The music, the physical art, and the sex appeal of the African magician is very strong. And we see this in the way that African magicians and artists are able to enter a culture and become great sex symbols. And if they themselves do not become symbols of fertility, then their art is replicated by sometimes white European musicians, like Elvis, for example. Replicating black musicians in the advancement of rock and roll. And rock and roll presents this extreme shakti spirit, this divine feminine spirit. And this Divine feminine spirit absorbs and it is very enticing. It's intoxicating like alcohol, which is also associated with the muladhara. And in this drunkenness there is an embrace of the African into the culture and assimilation of the African into the culture. And so great African artists, rappers, jazz musicians, blues musicians, whatever, they are invited to exist within the cultural container of European society. That has been one of the great African magical strategies. Now how does this work in terms of advancing the blood position of the African people? Well, as I said, the blood of the African people is very strong. So the art of the African people is a portal through which individuals possessing weaker blood may form unions with these, with the Africans. And then the result is a racial environment that is more in alignment with the socio political interests of the African people. The more mixed race people you have within the social environment, the more likely it is that the African people will establish some socio political power within that environment. And so this is the all consuming aspect of the womb, the mother cult within the cult of Allah within Odinala that is represented so well throughout the earth. Now I'm not saying that every single African magician that is advancing this is worshiping Allah because there are many other African earth mother goddesses that represent the same force. But the general idea, this essential idea of the spread of African power through the open womb is the core strategy. Now let's talk about how this is represented, specifically in the case of Diantword. Now I'm going to create a video that goes into detail regarding the magical practices of the Antwerd. Because the Antwerd, these are very strong African magicians, very strong African magicians. And their practices are quite unique and delve into the depths of the African tradition. Both the ascending path and descending path Within African magic. You have the inverted principles represented by the Antwerp. The Antwerd is an incredible example African magic. But I want to speak upon them here so that I can give just a taste of what is to come in that future discussion. So the Antwerd, they are a South African rap rave band that became quite popular due to their use of the Zeff aesthetic. Now for those of you don't know, Zeff is a term that refers to a cultural aesthetic within South Africa that is sort of like South African redneck or South African hot rod culture, the rockabilly redneck type culture, like white trash culture basically within South Africa. Now the Antwerd utilized this very strategically. These, these magicians, Yolandi and Ninja as they go by, they are, they have a divine union and in this divine union, this is not the Aryan divine union. This is not the balance between Shiva and Shakti. This is the African divine union. This is the dominance of the woman over the man. And the N word has done a good job of hiding this for the uninitiated. But the initiated will recognize that Yolandi, in this magical group, she is the dominant force, and Ninja just follows her. Anyone who would like to see an example of this should. Should watch some of their music videos and see how Yolandi often plays the character of a temptress. Now, in some of the videos, such as Banana Brain, Yolandi is tempting Ninja towards sexual assault. Now, if you understand the cult of Allah, you know that Allah is tempting the rape of the land, because if this occurs, she is able to absorb this abuse, absorb this poison, and transform it into medicine. And this is what we see represented in a lot of the music of the Antwerd. But if you look into the symbolism that is employed by the Antwerd, you will find that the Odinala is strongly represented, strongly in their logo, in the imagery they utilize in their music videos. And it is well known that the Antwerd are practicing Satanists and they utilize black magic. Now, one of the interesting things about the Antwerd is that they are white South Africans. However, if you analyze their art, you will see that they are undergoing a transformative process where metaphysically, they are transforming into children of Allah. They are transforming into Africans as part of this magical process. And this is actually represented within their art. So what is the relevance of this? Well, the relevance of this is that the Antwerd is extremely popular. They are an extremely popular musical group. They just released a new documentary. And by the way, I'm going to do a full analysis of that documentary because it contains very intense occult symbolism specifically related to the Odinala tradition. But this group is spreading African magic through their work. And their work is extremely intense. Muladhara magic, very intense work. So their music can be considered like a fetish. The God exists within the expression. And when you encounter something like this, if you are not prepared to address it, you can be swept up into it. You can be consumed by it. Now, I want to make it very clear at the end of this discussion, since I'm about to talk about the Scandinavian tradition and its relationship to the African tradition, I want to make it very clear that I am not making any value judgments about African magic, Aryan magic, Jewish magic, or the father magic of the Scandinavians. I have my own personal bias, but it's not my goal in this talk to say that one form of magic is good or evil. I don't believe in good and evil. I believe in Dharma. So I can respect a powerful African magician or Jewish magician or father cult magician or Aryan magician. I can respect that. But of course, I have my own interests in this, and I'm discussing this openly because I want people to understand the nature of the forces that are operating in the world so that whenever they determine what their dharmic expression is, they can orient themselves properly to those expressions. Most people who encounter the ritual work, and that's what it is, of the Antwerd, are being influenced subtly or sometimes very explicitly by that expression. And if you look into the history of the Antwerd, you'll see quite a bit of abusive behavior on their part. They are into some very intense, imminent magic, and this essence is in their music. So people need to know about that. They need to know what is being presented to them so that they can determine whether or not that is a poison they are willing to take. Like I said, I'm going to talk a lot more about the specifics of the magical practices of the Antwerd in the future. But for now, it's important to recognize that they are, in fact, very strong practitioners of Odinala. And they are an example of the fact that you do not have to have African blood to practice Odinala. It helps, though. And most white Europeans who encounter African magic are going to be utterly destroyed by it, swept up by it. And it remains to be seen whether or not the divine union of Yolandi and Ninja is a successful divine union or a failed divine union. They have a child. Her name is sixteen. And you can see in their newest music video that they are actually representing her as a material expression of Allah. There is a scene where she is laying in bed and her lower body is a serpent, and she is also swimming with serpents. So there's other Odinala imagery in this video as well that I'll be breaking down in the future. But yes, Diane Ward, very strong example of African magic being practiced by people who are not of indigenous African blood, if you want to use the term indigenous. Now, one last point. As I said, in order to really understand the mother cults, you need to contrast them with the father cults. We have Odinala on one side that I've selected as a strong representation of the mother cult, and on the other side, we have Odinism. Now, Odinism, I say Odinism because Odinism is very much a divine, masculine father cult. Expression of the Scandinavian traditional that is very much in line with a pure expression of the Scandinavian tradition. Now, this is the kind of expression of the Scandinavian tradition that we would expect to find in the early Viking age and prior. As the Vikings became more violent and expanded out, they took on aspects of the Aryan tradition. And this is where you have a bit of confusion as to whether or not the Norse tradition is Aryan at its core, but it's not Aryan at its core. It can be Aryan, but it's not Aryan at its core. At its core, it is very transcendent. And so what do we have here? We have everything represented as unification in the spirit. Now, spiritual race is something that is quite interesting. It means that your race draws its essence from subtle space or the gods. And this is represented in, for example, the cult of Hyperborea, where the northern European race is shown to have a non material body and then takes material form. And these are the children of Odin. And all of the Scandinavian people are to draw their lineage, their heritage from Odin. He is the All Father, in contrast with Allah, who in the African tradition of Odinala, is the All Mother. Now, one really interesting thing that is very rarely discussed in, in fact, this is the first time that in my knowledge, that it's been publicly discussed is the fact that the Scandinavian tradition has a race mixing element, an interracial element built into it. And that is in the form of the goddess Hel. Now, the goddess Hel is the goddess of the underworld, and the underworld represents the womb. It is a very strong Muladhara image. Hel is one of the children of Loki and Angrboda, the mother of monsters. And what is interesting about Hel is she is described as having half black and half white skin. Now, scholars have looked at this, and they have looked at it with a strong racial bias, and they have said there's no way that this is representing some sort of interracial relationship. So they have comically depicted Hell as having cut down the middle half of her body being white and the other half being black. Now, telling you that that is not what this represents. What Hel represents is the interest in the Norse tradition of interacting with the Dark Mother through some type of interracial action. And that is the form of hell. Now, interestingly enough, those who die of old age or sickness are said to go to hell, to be with hell. There is some aspect of poison with hell. In fact, there's great fear surrounding hell and there's this need to rescue the dead from hell. So what we have in the Scandinavian tradition, the Norse tradition is a great fear of a black planet. Basically, shout out to public enemy. We have here this need to preserve the purity of the blood of Odin, because if this blood ever encounters the Dark Mother in the form of Hel, you have this mixing that occurs. And Hel is considered to be a monster. She is a daughter of Angrbodo, the mother of monsters, and she is a daughter of the trickster Loki. So there is this fear that interacting with the divine Mother is going to lead to some type of intermingling that will destroy the children of Odin. And here is why. Within the Norse tradition, women are subservient to the men. It is a very strong patriarchy. It is a stronger patriarchy than what we find in the Jewish tradition. And this is why it is not purely Aryan, because Arianism finds balance between the divine, masculine and feminine. So if we want to have a pure expression of the Norse tradition, it is highly patriarchal and it is highly related to the race of the spirit, or the Odinic race, or the white European race, essentially at its core. Now, this is not Aryan in expression. There's great confusion over that. Arianism is about differentiation and things existing in a plane of differentiation. The Norse tradition is about creating a container, a control center for the dominance of everything that is feminine. And ultimately this leads to absorption into the light, until the light takes us shout out to Burzum. And here we have, in this expression, the highest transcendence that we can find within the existing cults.