# The Right-Hand Path Part 3 - Swadhisthana

The Svadistana, the Svad Crocodile Land. Okay, so we are going to continue on now with our exploration of the Kundalini of specific states of consciousness. And last week we talked about the Muladhara. So of course this week we're going to go up the spine and we're going to reach the base of the tailbone where we find the Svadhistana. So the Svada stana is represented by the color vermilion. It's not just orange, it's vermilion. And why is it vermilion? Because it can't just be orange. Orange would be way too plain. Vermilion. That's the, that's the Svad way of doing it, right? It's like a little bit above orange, just a step above. It's special, it's refined. And that's the nature of the Svadhisthana. It's refinement. It is the root of differentiation within consciousness. It's when we begin to recognize the difference between black and white, the difference between hot and cold, bland and spicy. It is still a tamas state of consciousness. So there is an earthiness about it. But there is also this element of fire. Because the Svadhisthana rests between the muladhara and the manipura. And the element of fire that is mixed with the earth creates magma. And magma is the elemental designation of the Svadhisthana. Now, magma is something that rests just on the surface of the earth, and that is the svada sthana. It's that which is just above the basic, just above the prime material. And from this vantage point of being so close to the earth, yet still separate to some degree, this is where the Svadhisthana inhabits this condition of refinement. So within this condition of refinement we have recognition of many different things that exist within the self and within the outside world or within the cosmos. And so when you're practicing Kundalini on the right hand path and you're advancing into the svada sthana, what you're doing is you're moving from the body as something that is involuntary. The natural order of the body, the rooted aspect of the body, where everything functions without thought, without question, you're moving to a new space where the body becomes something that is selective and the material world, that which surrounds you, becomes something that is also selective. And there are wide reaching implications resulting from this shift from. From the foundation of primordial embodiment to this heightened sensitivity. So let's talk about what it means to exist within the Svadhisthana, individuals who are rooted in the svadhisthana, these individuals tend to be the most sensuous of people. And when I say sensuous, I mean that they navigate the world through the material and the sensations they experience through interaction with the material. So it can seem that there is this deep contemplation within those who operate from the svada sthana. It can seem as though they make decisions through intense intellectual calculation. But what really is happening is that they are sensing the material like a snake that slithers on the earth and sticks out its tongue and it tastes the environment. And it knows, based upon the calculations, that it is making these sensuous calculations. It knows what is right, what is dharmic. And that is the power of the svadhisthana. It is the ability to tap into sight, hearing, smelling, tasting, feeling all of these sensuous elements and bringing them into intense, deep awareness. And that's where the sensitivity comes from. Because individuals rooted in the svadhisthana are known for their taste, sophistication, and sensitivity. Now, just because you're rooted in the svadhisthana does not guarantee that you will be a sophisticated person. It does not guarantee that you will have good taste. But you have all of the raw materials for sophistication. You have all the raw materials for good taste. And so if you can tap into your nature and express it, you will be able to gain power from sensation. Now, all of this sensitivity, all of this refinement carries many, many pitfalls. And it's important to become aware of those pitfalls. So what I am speaking about now is relevant to every yogin, not just those rooted in the Svadhisthana. Because the way the chakras work is that we have all of these elements that exist within us all the time. You don't have to unlock them, you don't have to open them. They are open already. They are unlocked already. The reason we practice Kundalini is not to open or unlock these chakras. It's to inhabit them. And as we inhabit these chakras, we are shifting our consciousness. And when we shift our consciousness, we can begin to understand why people are the way they are and why we are the way they that we are. Because these elements, even if we're not rooted in a specific state, like let's say you're rooted in the anahata, you still can have serious maladjustments present in the svada sthana that have a deep impact on your overall expression. Of consciousness. You can have maladjustments in any of the chakras that have a deep impact on your total being. And so you have to become aware of the presence of these maladjustments. So within the Svadhisthana, what are the typical maladjustments that we are looking for? Well, just like with the Muladhara, it's helpful to examine the sin that is associated with this specific state of consciousness. And the Svadhisthana is associated with the sin of envy. Everything that becomes maladjusted in the svadhisthana can be traced back to the sin of envy. And just like with the muladhara and greed, greed is not necessarily a negative thing. It's a poison. But it can be integrated. It can be transformed into medicine. And envy is the same. It's a poison, but it can be turned into medicine. So let's. Let's think about how envy might manifest in the svada sthana throughout the kundalini process of the right hand path. Okay, so we have attachments that are associated with envy. And all of the specific elements of the svada sthana that I have discussed so far, like the sensuous element, like the increased sensitivity, the refinement, the awareness of differentiation, there are so many things that are implied by these elements that can result in maladjustment. For example, with the increased sensitivity to the material, to the differentiation of the material that comes with the svadhistana, we have the potential for intense self criticism. The Svadhisthana is really the seat of body dysmorphia. And you can have body dysmorphia that is influenced by other states of consciousness. Like, for example, you can approach body dysmorphia from a Sahasra perspective. And this would be sort of like developing this spiritual pollution where you feel that you've lost autonomy over your body and it becomes a combative thing. But with the svada sthana, we're talking about classic body dysmorphia. This is hyper focus on those elements of the material that are perceived to be negative by the individual. And this is applicable not only to one's physical body, their individuated form, but the concept of body as a macro concept. So the earthly body, the physical environment, your surroundings, your bedroom, for example, Svadhisthana, maladjustment can lead you to nitpick the shit out of yourself and your environment. You can look at your wallpaper or the paint on your wall and you can say, this is. It's fucking ugly. It's horrible. I can't stand it. Right, and maybe it is. But you can reach a point in the Svadhisthana where things that would otherwise appear pleasurable to you no longer appear that way, because you are dead set on identifying everything, every little thing that could be wrong with that form. And you can turn this inward so you can begin to look at your nose, the shape of your nose, the shape of your chin, your jawline, your eye color, your hair, whatever. And you can start to obsess over the quality of those things and develop a negative bias towards those things. And that's something that is very common in Svadistana, maladjustment. And it's made all the more complicated by the fact that because the Svadhisthana is the seed of differentiation, when you inhabit this state, you are turning your awareness towards the external environment at times. And when you do this, you begin to identify social hierarchy, because social hierarchy is a physical manifestation of. Of differentiation within the material world. So you start to notice, that person has more money than me, that person has less money than me, that person has more friends than me, that person has less friends than me. Where do I rank within this hierarchy? And the factors that can influence one's perception of their ranking within the social hierarchy can extend to insane degrees. You can start to assess every little detail of every social interaction that you have with others. And you start to, in maladjustment, absorb the social standards that surround you without question. The because, like I said, the svada sthana is not a place of intellect. It is a place of sensuousness. And so when you're trying to determine the proper way to navigate these material channels, when you're slithering on the ground, when you're the crocodile swimming through the swamp, and you're trying to decide what is the condition that I should adopt, what are the conditions that I should inhabit in order to achieve that which is in alignment with my dharma, you're going to be influenced by the taste of the day. You're going to have to find a source of the standards that you apply it's taste. And because this is an earthy placement, there is this connection to the social order, the culture, the material form. So unless you can wrest control of yourself, your sensuous element will be reactive to that material environment. And so svada sthana people, people rooted in the Svadhisthana, who are unrefined, they become vessels for tastemakers who present them with some sensuous form, whether it be a really nice car or a nice house, or a specific standard for the way a man or a woman should appear. And because they are in a reactive state of unrefined shakti, they will respond to this stimuli and begin to adopt that taste. And this leads to the creation of communities which are enveloped by this reactive tendency. A perfect example of this would be the Andrew Tate culture. Because Andrew Tate is a Svadhisthana magician. He doesn't possess the kind of self awareness of someone like Anton Lavey, who is another Svadhistana magician. But he does have some degree of self awareness with what he's doing, and he knows how to set the taste and create a reaction in others. Now, he's not just targeting Svada Stana people, but his main audience is Svada stanamin. And he knows that he can spark a reaction within them and then set their tastes in alignment with his own. And that's part of his magic. Now, this occurs in subcultures like the Tate cult or like the. Like Andy Warhol's Factory is another good example of this. But it also occurs on a macro scale because the culture, which is a merchant culture, is always trying to touch upon the reactive elements in mankind. And one of the most powerful reactive elements is the sensuous element. It is sight, sound, taste, smell, touch, all of these things. And so marketing professionals will exploit that sensuous element that rests at the Svada Sthana in order to create the necessary reactions to build a wider culture. So much of the cultural interests that people hold, so much of the taste that they possess, is the result of reaction to stimuli. Entire political systems can operate on this fundamental idea of tapping into the sensuous element at the Svada stana and exploiting it in order to drive people towards a specific community. This happens all the time in American politics. Presidential campaigns are always touching upon this. They have specific colors that they associate their campaign with. And people see these colors and it's exciting. Like Donald Trump with his red hat, it's exciting. And when you see that color red, it stimulates something within the self and there's a reaction. Now, when you practice Kundalini on the right hand path, the goal is to become aware of the reaction. It's to draw yourself into mastery over the senses so that you can identify when you have experienced something that could push you into one of these communities, something that can draw you down into a state of hedonism. And this is something that you have to watch out for when working with this vadistana, because that which is sensuous, can have great control over the self. Fine clothes, good food, sex, bright colors, all of these things, they can cause very intense reactions, and you have to be aware of those reactions. And you have to be aware of how your reactions to these things have influenced perception in regards to the self. Because like I said, this is where the self criticism comes in. If the media is telling you that as a man, you need to inject yourself with PDS and shave your balls every day in order to be a real man, and you're totally reactive to the stimuli in your environment, then you're going to start doing this. You're going to start adopting these behaviors, and you're probably never going to question why you're adopting these behaviors. You're just going to do it because somebody told you that was the right thing to do. And whoever has the greatest influence over your environment, whether it's the media, the government, your parents, whoever, when they set these standards for you, it's going to have an impact. Now, sometimes it can have an opposite impact. Sometimes the perception that an individual holds in regards to power structures can lead that individual to have an adversarial reaction. Like, for example, when the federal government tells you to take a vaccine for Covid, and your opinion of the federal government is that everyone involved in the system is full of shit, then your reaction is going to be, no, fuck that. I'm not going to take that vaccine. I'm going to reject it completely. But of course, we're talking about reactive behavior. We're not talking about indulgent behavior. This is compulsion. So this is another way in which perception can be manipulated. And it all rests within the svadhisthana when we're talking about the sensuous reaction. So, for example, if a tastemaker says to you, you need to sign up. You need. You need to sign up for a program where we're going to give you $5,000 in free money, and all you have to do is sign up for this program, right? But you have a very negative opinion of the individual who is going to give you the $5,000. Maybe you won't trust the program, and so you'll have this reaction where you won't sign up. Now, this is a reactive response to stimuli. And in this instance, you've screwed yourself out of $5,000 because there was no catch. But you were not in a state of refinement where you could reflect upon the nature of your reaction to that stimuli. And therefore you were controlled by the system to actively reject free money. Well, this kind of thing happens all the time because the tastemakers of this world, they know how to manipulate people on both ends of the equation. They know how to manipulate the sheep, and they know how to manipulate the sheep who believe that they are wolves. And that's how you end up with controlled opposition. Alex Jones is an expert at this. He, he's constantly assaulting the senses. He's screaming all the time at his listeners. He's got his Fox News bimbos that he hires to like tantalize the, the low IQ idiots that indulge in his bullshit. And he's putting stimulation in front of his audience all the time. Right? And he is a tastemaker. So he knows that his audience has a bad taste in their mouth from the mainstream media and from the state. And so what does he do? He offers a similar program of constant stimulation with no real avenue of self reflection. And he doesn't encourage that type of reflection in his audience. And so he leeches off of them. This is all an aspect of maladjusted svadistana. Now there are other factors at play as well, because you have the intellectual element, the mind war, right? But we're talking specifically about the reaction that is created in the body, in the sensation that is experienced when one is exposed to propaganda. And when I say propaganda, I don't just mean wide scale social propaganda. I mean the propaganda that you can experience on a very personal level, which when dealing with a small group of friends, when dealing with your family, when dealing with someone in a one on one conversation. These principles of propaganda may be applied at every level. And the only way that you can free yourself from the influence of the hacking of your senses is by becoming aware of the sensuous element. And that is why we enter into the Svada Sthana to begin to identify how our senses are being used against us and how we are developing unhealthy attachments with various elements of the sensuous body. So why is it that so many of us are prone to a low self opinion within the context of the Svadhisthana and the sensuous element and reflecting upon the differentiated aspect of the self? Well, it's because most of us have been given a specific form, either by society or by our family or just another individual. We've been given a specific form that we are expected to take on. And this form that is given to us by others requires rigid standardization, otherwise it cannot be presented in a functional manner. And this rigid standardization is the Apollonian element. The Apollonian element is important for art, for engineering, for the general functioning of the body. You need to have some degree of order and standards of order. But if you draw all of your attention away from the chaotic divine feminine element and you throw it into Apollonian order, what you're doing is you're subjecting yourself to the will of others ultimately, because it is a unifying principle. And this is where the individual begins to develop inhibitions. In the Svadhisthana, for example, the mewing craze. So there was this doctor who decided one day that he was going to tell the world that they needed to manipulate their tongue in order to shape their jawline over time. Now, obviously, there's no. Well, not obviously, but because the propaganda has. The propaganda machine has perpetuated this mewing myth. But this. There is no evidence for mewing being an effective practice, yet it is practiced consistently by millions of people. And why? Because an Apollonian standard was established and it gained enough momentum within the Zeitgeist in order to influence more people to join in with the process. This is a very important thing to consider. That is the magical process of the Svada Sthana. If you can gain enough social momentum, you can cause incredible change in the world transformation. It's a magical process. It's far Astana magic. You are enchanting things with the Svadhisthana. So this doctor, he came up with this idea of mewing. And then various Internet communities latched on to this idea, and they started to set a new standard for what is beautiful jawline. Now, they all had different reasoning as to why they engaged in this practice of promoting this behavior. But regardless, they did promote it. And when they promoted it, they advanced the idea of this perfect jawline. Well, of course, beauty really is in the eye of the beholder, and it is totally dependent upon one's individuated form, their Dharma. What I find to be beautiful is in alignment with my nature. And what you find to be beautiful is in alignment with your nature. This is something that can be demonstrated by observing the differences between species. So a warthog is going to find a male warthog is going to find a female warthog beautiful, but he's not going to find a female meerkat beautiful unless he's fucked in the head, right? Unless he's totally living against his Dharma. If he's expressing his nature as a warthog, then he's going to find a female warthog mate. I have specific standards of what I find to be beautiful that are partially in Relation to my biology, which is my rooted body nature. In the Muladhara, partially influenced by my mind, in the Vishuddhi, by my spirit, in the Sahasra, by my emotional creative center, in the Manipura, by. By my heart, by the Svadhisthana, by the Ajna. All of these elements come into play in determining what I find as an individual to be beautiful. And nobody can tell me that my standard is wrong. Because I am living in accordance with my dharma. And it just so happens that my standard of what I find to be beautiful Is often at odds with the standards of the masses. And I'm not just saying in terms of the physical beauty of other people, But I'm talking about my standards of beauty in music, in paintings, in architecture. All of these things. Now, are my standards the gospel? Are they to be applied to everyone else? No, of course not. Because, as I said, they are linked to my individuated expression. However, I am only able to indulge in that which I find to be beautiful. Because I have obtained self mastery over my senses, over the sensuous element of the self. So I am not prone to reactivity. When somebody takes an Arno Brecher statue and shows its jawline and pushes this in front of me and says, this is what your jaw should look like. And if it doesn't look like this, you're fucked up. This is what the jaw of your wife should also look like. And if you don't like it, you're a motherfucking degenerate. Right? See, it's ridiculous whenever you think of it in these terms. But people get caught in these reactive spirals. And when you're caught in these reactive spirals, it's easy to convince yourself that this standard, which was set by one individual based upon their personal bias, this standard that is now being presented as this objective standard for all people, it has no foundation in reality. It has no foundation in an understanding of Dharma or the order of the universe. So how do you break from this? How do you break from these rigid standards that we apply to ourselves in maladjusted Svadhisthana? How do you break from the tendency to rip yourself apart in this way? Well, first you have to recognize your Dharma. You have to sense whether or not you are pursuing your nature. Now, most of us, by the time we are in the Svadhisthana element of our kundalini, right hand path practice, we don't know our Dharma yet because we're still exploring the self. But we do know that certain things are creating attachment. And this is why it's so important to focus on the idea of attachment in the right hand path. Because you don't know your dharma yet. At least most people don't. But attachment is always a barrier to expressing your dharma. So if you have an attachment to a specific idea, like, for example, I must have a jawline like an Arno Brecher statue, if you have this attachment, you've got to destroy it. Well, how do you destroy it? Like I said, this is rooted in a manifestation of the Apollonian. So in true Nietzschean fashion, you have to apply the counterbalance to the Apollonian, which is the Dionysian. And this is convenient because Dionysus is a God of the Svadhistana. And there's a reason why he's a God of the Svadhistana because he offers a pathway to liberation from inhibition. People within the Svada Sthana have the potential to be great artists. People rooted there. Everyone has the potential to be a great artist in their own way. But the Svada Sthana is a particularly creative place because it is adjacent to the Manipura, and there's this earthy creativity about the Svadhistana. But Svada stana people are prone to practicality because they apply these Apollonian forms. And in pursuit of social acceptance, they are willing to subject themselves to intense inhibition. And this becomes a barrier to the realization of the self. So how do you remove that inhibition? Well, you must embrace the Dionysian. Embrace of the Dionysian requires throwing yourself into the chaotic elements of nature. So one exercise that you can apply in the right hand path, kundalini of the Svada Sthana is the Japanese tradition of wabi sabi. Wabi sabi is associated with the Japanese tradition tea ceremony. That's where it comes from. And the concept behind wabi sabi is this, that nature possesses both Apollonian orderly and Dionysian chaotic elements. And it is necessary to see the beauty in both the Apollonian form and the Dionysian form, seeing the beauty in order and chaos. And this is integrated into the traditional Japanese tea ceremony. So, for example, within the traditional ceremony, you would have a tea set that would be passed down throughout the generations. And one of the interesting elements of this tradition is that some of the teacups that you would use in the ceremony would have chips in them. The teapot might have a crack in it, or it'd be worn, or the table that you are utilizing for the practice, it might be worn, worn with age, might have scuffs in it. From children playing on the table, a teacup might have been chipped by your great great grandmother. And in the midst of all of this imperfection, you have very rigid standards of behavior that you follow. You have intense refinement in the manner in which you go about the tea ceremony. So we have in this refinement, in the manners that are applied as part of the tradition, the orderly aspect. And then we have with these imperfect materials in the teapot, in the teacup, a recognition of the beauty that we find in the chaotic element of nature. Because when you sip tea from that cup and you reflect on the fact that your great great grandmother also sipped tea from this cup, you can see the beauty in that which makes you an individuated being. Because if the standard of perfection is Apollonian, and that which is Apollonian leads back to universal order or oneness, a lack of differentiation, then we must say, based upon that perception, that everything that is individuated, everything that is in differentiation, is imperfect. The shape of your nose, your hairline, the shape of your jaw, those things that you inherited from your ancestors, those things that make you into an individuated expression of the cosmos, those things are imperfect in comparison to Apollo. But does that mean that they lack beauty? Those who are oriented towards dissolution into oneness, submission to the solar cult, would say those things are ugly. But I'm of a different opinion. I disagree. I say those things are beautiful. I say that those things that make us individuated beings are worth preserving. I see beauty in both the orderly element of nature and the chaotic element. And I am at war with those individuals who would strip us of that which makes us unique, those individuals who would remove all dignity from our family line, from that which we have inherited. I'm proud of the shape of my nose. I'm proud of the shape of my chin. I'm proud of my hairline. And I'm fucking bald. But it looks good on me. And if someone thinks it doesn't look good on me, they can fuck off. I don't care. I don't have to be accepted by everyone. You don't have to be accepted by everyone. Part of mastering the Svada sthana is recognizing this fact that your tastes do not have to reflect the tastes of the masses. Your tastes are justified by your nature, ultimately. And even if no one else on the planet shares your taste, your sight, your smell, the way that you hear, the way that you feel, your position is still justified by your individuated being, by your dharma. And so you must affirm this. You must affirm this individuated expression. Release yourself from inhibition. That's the first step. And you can do this with many different practices. In this school, we often utilize the invocation of Dionysus. Or you may apply the principle of wabi sabi in actively searching out beauty in that which is imperfect. The cracks in the sidewalk, the chipping paint on the side of the building, the crayon marks on the kitchen table that were left by your children, the scar on your cheek, the limp in the walk of a soldier, all of these potential sources of beauty in that which otherwise might be depicted as ugly, recognizing those things. But then, once you've recognized this, and you have freed yourself from inhibition, and you have begun to free yourself from reactivity, you have removed yourself from the slavery of the tastemakers. It's at this point that you may begin to construct your egregore. You put on the face that you want the world to see. And we do this in this school through an exercise where you imagine yourself as a God. What would your temple look like? What would the statue erected in your honor look like? What kind of clothes would you wear? What pose would you be in? What would you be the God of? Would you be a God of war? Of love? Of the harvest? And you don't have to limit yourself to antiquity. You can be a modern God. The idea is that you're creating a representation of yourself worthy of preservation into eternity. And based upon this representation, you can become master of taste. You can shape the perception of yourself that is held by others. You become the taste maker. You become the leader of the circus. And once you have achieved this position, then you can act as the crocodile head just above the water, scanning the surface for the right moment to strike. Body below the depths, carrying weight. A totally independent killing machine with all senses honed to perfection. And what is perfection but the pursuit of that which is natural to the beast?