# rtt lecture - Blood Karma

There are many different forms of karma. Karma is action and reaction. That's the simplest definition of karma that I believe I can give. And when you apply karma to a specific element, whether it is the blood or the spirit, it doesn't matter. Karma carries the same implication. Some action has been taken and something has resulted from this action. And so karma yoga is the study of action and reaction. Now, when we're specifically talking about blood karma, we are talking about the interaction between karma and the muladhara. And this can manifest in different ways depending upon what aspect of the muladhara we are focusing on. The muladhara has many facets. Blood is not simply the material of the blood that we associate with the word blood in modern science. Blood is an element. It has an esoteric aspect. It refers to everything that is solidified. So blood karma carries the same degree of complexity that we find in the esoteric presentation of blood. And we're going to now dissect all of these aspects of blood Karma so that we can begin to understand how to employ yoga as a means of behaving karmically so that we can achieve a specific outcome in relation to the blood. Let's begin with heritage. Issues of heritage are very important within yoga. The hereditary aspect of practice is something that should never be ignored, because as I've said many times in the past, we live in the Kali Yuga, where blood is the foundation of everything. And so if you ignore issues of heritage, you are undercutting yourself immediately. You are ignoring an extremely important source of information that will allow you to structure your practice in such a way that you're taking advantage of the positive aspects of that which has been inherited, and you are reducing the negative impacts of your heritage. This is extremely important. Most people are not aware of the depth of influence that blood has on their behavior, on their station in life, on their social environment. Blood is extremely powerful. Of course it is, because, as I said, it's the foundation of consciousness in the present age. And so if you're accessing the blood in order to understand how to empower yourself, you need to trace the origin of that element. The origin of that element tells us a lot about what we can do with it. So let's talk about that. How do you trace the origin of that blood? And once you trace the origin, what significance does it carry? The blood that is within you, your DNA, that which makes up your physical form, is a product of karma. Breeding is karma. You are a manifestation of an ancestral line that is your heritage. And so all. All of the decisions that have been made in the life of your ancestors. That has written a tale. A tale which is followed from one individual to the next. In this line, until we reach you. You are the culmination of that story. Now, you yourself are also writing lines in that tale. You are contributing to the blood karma of your lineage. There are certain aspects of Dharma that are a direct result of the karmic line. From the foundation of your bloodline to your present form. The specific aspect of Dharma that we associate with the blood. Is the raw physical expression of Dharma. So in an unrefined state. Just acting on the bare foundation of consciousness. That we all have when we're born. The blood has a very intense impact on your dharma. It is the natural aspect of Dharma. The nature of. As opposed to the nurture. Now, when we're referring to the muladhara aspect of Dharma. We're talking about that aspect of nature. Which is, at its purest expression. Solidified material form. For example, we have your eye color. The color of your skin, Your height. The natural potential for muscle growth. The natural potential for the development of certain physical ailments. These are all aspects of your dharma that are related to that which is explicitly physical. And this structure is karmic. You were born with blood karma. And this blood karma, this story that has been written. That is the story of your DNA. And it gives you your natural foundation. So you have your parents and your parents, parents and their parents. Going all the way back to the foundation of your being. To thank for the natural gifts and the natural weaknesses that you possess. Now, we know that in tantra. One of the goals of practice. Is to transform every manifestation of weakness into a strength. Just having awareness of your weakness. Is enough to begin the process of maximizing strength. If I'm aware of the fact, for example, that I am naturally tall. Then I can direct myself towards activities that will benefit. I will benefit from my height. Like, for example, I could become a basketball player or something like that. Now, that's a very obvious expression of blood karma. You know, you can see your height. It's a very simple thing to understand. But there are other aspects of the blood that are a bit more subterranean. Like, for example, specific habits or potential to develop. Habits that are passed down from your mother or your father. An explicit example of this would be something like alcoholism. These traits that lead to a higher propensity for addiction. We can find these traits in bloodlines. And it's not necessary for your mother or your father to exhibit these traits. This is a Trait that could be exhibited by your grandparents or even further down the line. If you are aware of the potential for these traits to manifest within you, you can take the necessary steps to prevent that from occurring. Now, very important, Becoming aware of a specific behavioral trait in your bloodline can actually be a problem. Because if you are aware of the fact, for example, that your grandfather was an alcoholic, you might start to develop some fear Surrounding the potential that you possess to become an alcoholic. And by drawing your awareness to that negative aspect of your blood karma, you might manifest that potential. This happens all the time. Many individuals will replay the mistakes of their ancestors, not because they can't escape these mistakes, but because they choose to focus heavily on those mistakes. And they don't take the necessary action. They don't apply the necessary karma yoga to address those mistakes. And this is how a negative trait, A trait that has the potential to reduce the power of the yogin, this is how this trait manifests over many generations. And if it is not dealt with, it may become increasingly potent as it is passed down through the line. You can consider it a distillation process. If your grandfather was physically abusive towards his children and your parents, they were physically abusive towards you, it's likely that the abuse you receive is even more severe than the abuse that they received. And now there is a propensity for you to do the same to your own children with even greater severity. It's part of a breeding process. And the best way to maximize the effectiveness of a breeding program Is through awareness. If you want to breed a specific type of cattle, you want to be highly aware of the traits of the cattle that you choose for the breeding program. You don't want to just leave it to chance. You can breed a specific human type over time. Now, most people lack awareness of the self. And in lacking awareness of the self, they involve themselves in romantic relationships that are disconnected from their dharma. And most of these relationships are quite unhappy. They're adharmic. So if a child is produced from this relationship, it is likely that that child will inherit some very destructive blood karma from this pairing. What's interesting about the history of humanity Is that human beings have tended to apply much greater scrutiny. In the breeding of domesticated animals that are under their control, as compared to the discernment that they have applied in their own choice of a partner. And, of course, there are some governments that have tried to institute mass breeding programs, Certain forms of hard eugenics. And these eugenics programs, they have unintended consequences, Many different unintended consequences. Because One thing about human pairing is that for it to develop dharmically, there are many considerations beyond just the raw physical expression. Most eugenicists have focused on a quantitative approach where they look at specific data points, like, for example, the presence of alcoholism in a family line or the height or weight of the child in order to determine whether or not this individual should be allowed to breed. But of course, this does not take into account the subtle aspects of life or the passionate rajas aspects of life. Most of these breeding programs are very materialistic. And the funny thing about blood karma is that blood is influenced by far more than just blood. When you make certain intellectual decisions that can influence your blood. When you embrace certain spiritual modes that can influence your blood. When you choose to recognize certain emotional expressions that can influence your blood. There are many things that can influence your blood. And one mistake that is made in blood Karma yoga is to focus very intensely on just the materialistic aspect. Now, there is no government on earth that can apply a mass breeding program, a eugenics program that can account for all of the complexities of heart and spirit and mind and inner fire. All of these aspects of the self that are considered in the the dharma of individuals. And so it is not viable for any state to guarantee a group of superhumans to be produced by a hard eugenics program. Now, there are certain aspects of soft eugenics that can produce generally a better population of people. For example, if you encourage the population to practice yoga and individuals become more aware of their dharma, then they're more likely to behave dharmically. And so therefore, they're more likely to choose a partner that is in alignment with their dharma. And they're more likely to have healthier children. So this is a soft eugenics program. Now, whatever program can be applied socially, you can apply in your own life. And if you want to maximize your power, this is exactly what you should do. The aspects of blood karma yoga that we are discussing tonight are not just applicable for those who want to raise a family. You can take certain action now to burn the negative karma that you have inherited from your bloodline and maximize or emphasize the positive karma. So let's talk about that in terms of first, what is physical? Okay, so as I said before, if you are aware of a certain physical aspect that is passed down through your family, like, for example, your father was able to put on a lot of muscle naturally, well, you can look to his example and you can take that on, and you can emphasize that. You can say, okay, clearly I've inherited the potential to be Very muscular, so I can cultivate that. Well, let's say that there have. There's been a long line of men in your family that have been more intellectually oriented, and they have tried to build more muscle, but, you know, it didn't work so well for them. Maybe you have inherited more of an intellectual bend. That's definitely a possibility. So maybe, you know, don't have expectations for great physical prowess in your life. Instead, you should direct yourself towards the natural gifts that you have inherited. Now, keeping this in mind, it's important to not be totally confined by the physical aspects of your lineage, because everyone is born with certain individual traits, and they're born with a certain rooted state of consciousness that can change their potential for growth. Let's say that you come from a long line of vishudi men who chose to emphasize their mind over the physical body. But you were born as a muladhara man. And naturally, you have a higher potential for building the mamsadhatu, or the physical structure of the body. Well, if that's the case, then even though you come from a long line of intellectuals, maybe it is your dharma to break from that lineage and still take the positive intellectual aspects from your father and grandfather and the men that came before him, but now integrate that into a new mode of living, which is the physical life. Now, there's many reasons why a child like this could be produced. There's the differentiation between the maternal line versus the paternal line. There's also social conditions that influence the development of the fetus. There's been studies done during wartime that show that the presence of war in a region can have a big impact on the physical attributes of children who are born under those conditions. There's been many population studies conducted on the effects of environment on the development of the fetus. And it has shown. These studies have shown with great confidence that environment has a major impact on fetal development. And so you are not confined to the example of your heritage. But most of us do have a very strong connection to our bloodline in some way or another. And we need to be aware of that. And with that awareness, we need to not be consumed by the negative aspect or what we perceive to be the negative aspect. We need to turn everything that we've been given all these tools into a source of power. And we can do that through awareness. Now, let's talk about another aspect of blood karma that is more in line with the svadhisthana. It's still a tamasic aspect. And the blood does interact with the Svada sthana very closely because they are both. Both the Muladhara and the Svadhisthana are tamasic. And there is a strong communication between those two points. And that is the social aspect of blood karma. So when I talk about the social aspect of blood karma, what I'm speaking of is the point of refinement in society that your bloodline has given to you. So, for example, if you were born into royalty, okay, due to your heritage, there are certain means of accessing social power, social resources that you have been granted. And awareness of this is important. This can be a great source of power, or it can totally destroy you. If you are born, for example, into the slums, okay, socially speaking, now you have inherited the karma of your family line. Decisions that were made by your ancestors has led to this condition where you have been born into the slums. So what do you do with that? Well, you can remain in the slums, and maybe for some, that is their dharma. Or you can struggle against this condition, and you can escape the social conditions that you were born into. And as a process of escaping these conditions, you are burning your ancestral karma. And in doing so, you are empowering yourself. So you can become thankful then for the fact that you were born into the slums because it gave you something to struggle against, and it made you appreciate the good things in life. This is an aspect of blood karma that we would associate with the Svadhisthana. Now, let's compare that with someone who is born into royalty, like Siddhartha, for example. Siddhartha was born a very rich man, and he did not even realize or know. He had no knowledge of the fact that there were impoverished people living outside of the palace because he was not allowed to see this. So this kind of life breeds boredom and decadence because there is no point of contrast to all of the wealth that surrounds you. So you can't even recognize that what you were born into is wealth. And Siddhartha, when he first saw a poor beggar on the street, this had a major impact on him. And it led him to abandon his life of splendor and go out into the wilderness so that he could struggle and understand the value of beauty. And he found beauty in many different places, not just in the palace. So this is yet another example of blood karma that has a very significant impact. You need to be aware of how you are perceived socially through your family line, because certain expectations are going to be placed upon you based upon the behaviors of your parents or your grandparents. And this is more Applicable in some regions than others. There are some cultures that deeply emphasize this Svadistana aspect of blood karma. If you are from a family line that is dishonorable, it is very difficult for you to navigate the social hierarchy. And if you come from a very honorable family, you might have it a bit easier. So understanding the way that people perceive you based upon your family line is quite important. And it's also important for you to do this work, because oftentimes people will pass judgment on you based upon your lineage without you having any awareness that this judgment has been made. And so to make yourself aware of this is great power, because then you can start to determine what social strategy you might apply in your yoga practice when working with the Svadhisthana to either change that perception or use it to your benefit. Just because you were born with a bad reputation in your family line, that doesn't mean necessarily that you were born with bad karma. A bad reputation can be a great source of power depending upon how you use it. So it's all a matter of Dharma, your individual Dharma versus the dharma of your family versus the dharma of society, and finding a balance point between those things, being aware, using the Svadhisthana to understand how to put on a mask, how to take off a mask, and how to use that blood karma as a way to build your own reputation, a reputation that serves you well. Okay, now, there is also a supernatural aspect to heritage. So a good example of this would be the Christianization of Europe. So prior to the Christianization of Europe, of course, most Europeans were polytheists. And so when you were born into polytheism through your family line, the gods of your family had a deep influence on your life. If your family worshiped Apollo, for example, then you are born with natural favor from Apollo. If your family worship Dionysus, then you're born with natural favor from Dionysus. And you can use that positive relationship that your family has developed with a specific cult in order to gain power. So it's important to consider this, because if you decide to break from your family tradition in the worshiping of a specific God, it's going to require you to work hard to develop a connection to a new God. And you have to consider that some gods, some aspects of that which is beyond the natural world, these gods might look poorly upon your family depending upon their behavior. So you have to be aware of that, and you have to adjust your practice in this manner. Now, here's a good example of this. After the Christianization of Europe, all of These Europeans who once were polytheists, they become monotheists and they reject the gods of their ancestors. Well, this has a definite blood karma impact, not just for individuals, but the entire land. It changes the entire spiritual makeup of the land. And it has a definite influence on the blood. There is a direct impact on the blood from the spirit. So if you are not feeding the pagan spirit, then you are not feeding the pagan blood. And you will not pass on the natural traits that are in alignment with pagan empire. Instead, you will begin to pass on the physical traits of the new God. And for the Europeans, that is Yahweh, the Christian God. So the presence of the Christian God within Europe led to new breeding standards. And now we see the end result of that. Where the old European polytheistic man was strong and willful and powerful and worshipped might and expressed this will towards might in his bloodline, the Christianized man now tends to produce physically weak, mentally weak shadows of the old European man. Why is that? Well, it's because the Christian religion encourages meekness. In those instances where the Christian religion encourages a warrior like attitude, it is always in a very servile manner. Everything must be done in the name of God. And so therefore warrior traits of independence, individualization, those are bred out. And so there is now a tendency in society towards totalitarianism because no other man can be God but God himself, Yahweh. And the state is just an extension of Yahweh. So the old ways where we would encourage children to become individuals, those ways are gone. And it's part of a breeding program now. The further we get away from that healthy foundation in the blood, the communication between the gods and man in the physical, the further we get away from any sort of healthy expression of breeding. It's just like in the Lord of the Rings. Tolkien provided a very good example of this with the creation of the orcs. The orcs were once elves and they were exposed to a rotten spirit, and over time, they were bred into orcs. Okay, well, we're seeing the same thing happen in civilizations across the globe. When you take away the healthy foundation in the spirit, the healthy communication with the gods, there's a definite blood karma impact. Now, that doesn't mean that you are doomed to a condition of meekness, because every once in a while, the bronze soul can produce a gold soul. This is something that Plato spoke about. And those gold soul individuals, I believe it is their duty to, as part of their dharma, to rebel against those aspects of their bloodline that have led to this weakening of the foundation. Let's say that somewhere far, far in the distant past, your ancestors were polytheists, and they were worshiping Thor and Odin and Freya. And then someday there was a shift towards worship of the Christian God. And now since that time, there's been this long chain of Christianization that is being played out in the blood. It's part of the story that's being written, and it comes to you, and you suddenly become aware of the fact that what was once an elf is now becoming an orc. What do you do about that? If you have that awareness, if you were born with a gold soul and you know that your bloodline is being degraded, what do you do about that? Well, one thing that you can do is you can realize that all of the magical operations that you employ as part of your yoga practice can be pitted against the bad karma your ancestors. Now, of course, this is a matter of perception and dharma. Some people would consider the Christian blood that they've inherited to be good, and that's fine if that's their dharma. But others would consider it to be bad. And if you do consider that blood to be bad, what you must do is you must burn the karma. Now, a funny thing about burning karma is the more poisonous that the karma is, the more medicinal it can become once it is burned. So if you are born into great suffering, and if you were born with bad karma, you should consider this a great boon. Because if you are able to overcome those conditions and burn that karma, it's fuel to the fire, okay? It's like being born with a gallon drum of gasoline that you can just set on fire and cause a massive explosion. It's much better than being born with just a little match with a little spark. Okay? Being born with. Without all that poison, yeah, it can make for a comfortable life, but it really requires you to work hard to find suffering outside of yourself. And that's just as good if you can find it. But if you are born with that karma, it's not necessarily an impediment. In fact, I would say that it is a great gift. And so once you set that gasoline on fire and you cause this massive explosion and you change the direction of your entire family line, that makes you into legend, A legend of your heritage. And even if you don't decide to have children, the action that you have taken to change the course of your family line echoes into eternity. And you can follow that line. And when you die, you carry that karma with you. It is expressed through reincarnation into new realms. New potentialities, new aspects of blood karma. So let's say that you are born with this soul that draws you back towards the old gods. What can you do? You can act in blasphemy against your family line. Now, there is ancestral worship as part of blood karma, but there's also the rejection of certain aspects of your ancestry. And this is ancestral magic. Whether you embrace your ancestry or you reject aspects of it, it's all ancestral magic. Now, you may be from a bloodline where at some point in time, your ancestors were polytheists. Most of us are from such a bloodline. And you can choose to throw away all of this negative karma or burn all of this negative karma. If you perceive it to be negative karma that has developed since the Christianization or the move towards monotheism, even if it's not Christianity, whatever it is, or the rejection of the gods outright, you can decide to burn that karma. And when you make that decision, it requires you to reject the choices that were made by many of your ancestors. But in doing so, you can emphasize those ancestors who you consider to be the strongest representation of what is good and beautiful in your bloodline. Now, for some of us, we can't know whether or not our ancestors ever embraced anything in alignment with our dharma. Most likely they have, but we can't know this for sure. Some of us can't know this for sure. So for those individuals, you can still have pride in your ancestry and use that as a source of power. If you recognize that there are certain raw physical traits that have been passed down to you, or there is a certain struggle that has been played out in this grand opera over all of these thousands of years, where suddenly you have been given this very important role to change the course of your family history and be something special, be something very unique, a massive flame, a spark that explodes, and you make a name for yourself in your family line. And if you can do this, that is one way to take your ancestry, whether you consider it to be good or bad, and use it as a source of power. This is blood karma. Now, part of blood karma, especially in ancestral magic, is blood magic. When we utilize the blood in ritual, we are taking the raw material of blood and we are taking its magical properties and employing it as a means towards a specific end. Blood is very powerful because it contains the essence of our natural Dharma. So if you are utilizing blood in ritual, what you are doing is you are bringing your consciousness into greater alignment with that which is natural to you. If you have been drawn away from your nature, either by external circumstances or by your own doing. One way that you can gain power in the self is by emphasizing your material foundation. Now, blood magic doesn't necessarily require that you cut yourself and give blood to the gods. That is one aspect of blood magic. But there are many aspects of blood magic that all have an impact on karma. One aspect is physical exercise. If you have fallen away from your material foundation, you need to exercise, you need to use your body. And that is a generation of blood karma that is directed towards a specific outcome. Asana practice, lifting weights, running. This is all karmic action that's going to lead to a reaction. Giving blood to the gods, blood sacrifice, this is another form. Choosing to consume certain material, that's another form. These are all aspects of blood magic that you must become aware of if you want to make a karmic decision that is most in alignment with your Dharma. So keeping all this in mind, we have to recognize that blood is more than just that red liquid. In our body is everything that is material. Anytime you interact with the material world, you are generating some type of blood karma. Let's say that you decide to clear cut the forest on your ancestral land. Well, that is a karmic action. And you have done something to the material world. And those who come after you, whether it's from your bloodline or from another family's bloodline, they will have to inherit the karma of your actions. So you can be influenced by the blood karma of other people who are not in your family line. And that's part of that social aspect of blood karma that we all have to be aware of. So keeping this in mind, it is important to be aware of your impact on the material world. And the perception that you have in regards to the importance of the material world or the role of the material world in your Dharma is going to play an important role in what kind of karma you generate. So you need to become aware of this. And the way that you become aware of this is to explore the relationship between that which is physical outside of the body and that which is physical within the body, and not just the physical aspect. Because as I said, blood Karma is integrated into all things. So you need to think about the spiritual implications of what you do materially, the intellectual and emotional expression, and how it impacts the material world, and how all of these things come together to form yoga. Ultimately, the blood Karma that you pass on is going to have an effect on all things material, not just within this realm. And this is something very important to understand. The physical can never be totally divorced from everything else that exists within the cosmos. If you die and you go on to a new realm in reincarnation, there is going to be a physical aspect to that. So long as you are a differentiated being. There is no pure spirit or pure mind, pure inner fire, pure physicality. There's always some aspect. So when you reincarnate or when you face the implications of your karma, when this all comes to a head, you have to understand that all of the activity that you conducted in this physical environment here, it's not all just contained here. There will be implications beyond this realm. Keeping this in mind, you can find a new appreciation for the physical in this world. And you can direct yourself towards a perception that is no longer self limiting, but in fact provides you with ultimate power. And that is the secret of blood karma that we all must tap into in order to become the most powerful yogin possible.