# rtt - vajra tantra

Good evening, everyone. About to get started here in just a minute. All right, so tonight I'm going to talk about Vajra Tantra and what it means to throw lightning. So, Vajra Tantra, I'm not referring to one of the ancient Tantric texts. I'm talking about a specific form, form of tantra, a way to practice tantra. You could consider this yoga, but it's actually beyond yoga because yoga is a subset of tantra. And so when we practice yoga, we are advancing towards union, unification. We are trying to bring together all of the elements of the self and experience, express it in tantality, the Atman, whether that is Atman as the oneness of the Godhead or Atman as our own individuated personality. But tantra is beyond that. Tantra encompasses many things. It is geography, it is medicine, it is mathematics, it is politics. And within tantra, the thread that binds all of practices together is the fact that we are, in reference to the present Yuga, the Kali Yuga, utilizing the foundation of things as the basis for our practice. That is what makes Tantra unique. And it is perennial. So you don't have to operate just within the Indian system and you don't even have to be practicing yoga to be practicing Tantra. Tantra is something that would change its condition if we were working in a different Yuga, let's say the Satya Yuga, where the foundation of consciousness is spirit. And so you would utilize the spirit as the basis for. For your practice, whatever that practice would be. Of course, the only thing practicing within the major Satya. Ya. And that's what I'm referring to. The major Satya Yuga is the Godhead itself, oneness. So in our present Yuga, when we practice Tantra, it is a material foundation. So Vajra Tantra is the application of the Vajra in reference to all of the practices, all under the umbrella of tantra, whether that's medicine or mathematics or geography or politics. All of these things, they come together and are expressed with a specific character, a taste, a philosophy. That philosophy is the hammer. When Nietzsche said philosophize with a hammer, he was talking about the Vajra, the lightning weapon. So what exactly is this lightning weapon? When I say Vajra, if you're familiar with the Indian tradition or the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, you probably will recognize the Vajra as an item that is held by certain deities, a weapon. And this item comes in different forms. It is a power conductor. It is a way to direct prana, either bringing it in or expressing it out. That is the Vajra. And there are many deities that are known for carrying a vajra as one of their magical items. Indra is one of the most prominent deities associated with the Vajra. And Indra is a good deity to bring your awareness to if you're trying to understand the nature of the lightning weapon. Because he is a storm God. And like I said, tantra is perennial. It can be applied in many different forms, different cultures. And it has, even if it hasn't been called tantra. So we can see lines of tradition, big T, tradition in these different cultures. And we can see that this lightning weapon, Navajra, is something that appears in many, many different cultures, not just Aryan culture. So, for example, we have Thor Thunor of the Germanic tradition. And he carries Mjolnir, his hammer. Like I said, the Vajra Tantra is about philosophizing with a hammer. It's taking up Mjolnir and wielding the power of the heart, the anahata. We associate the anahata in tantra with electrity and magnetism, with lightning. It is fire on the wind. Alchemically speaking, that is how we create lightning. We take the fire at the belly, the tapas, the inner fire at the manipura, and we combine that with the wind, the wild wind, the air, the mind of the Vishuddhi. Between the manipura and the Vishudi rests the anahata, the heart, the fire on the wind, lightning. And so Thor. We would say that Thor is a God who is rooted in the anahata, the base of the consciousness that is represented by the figure. Thor is the heart. He is a champion of beauty, Dharma, expression of the will. And we can see this in the surrounding Thor, we can see this in his iconography. He carries the vajra, the lightning weapon, Mjolnir, his hammer. And he uses that hammer to direct his power, to apply his will in a very active sense. And then you have Indra. Indra carries vajra. This is like Mjolnir. It is a lightning weapon. It is a device that allows for an active material expression of the heart. You can hold it, you can carry it, you can perform mudra with it. And so the heart becomes something that is expressed in a form where it can be wielded with greater intensity. When you are able to bring the heart into a material formation and you're able to meditate upon, takes on greater significance. And you can pass that item on to someone else, they can understand it. They can wield it. This is actually crazy. I'm recording this right now. Just as an aside, whenever you speak about the vajra or you express electricity, when you operate from the heart, strange things can happen in yoga. You don't have to take my word for it. Like I said, tantra is from a physical foundation of experimentation and experience. There's a lot of strange things that happen when you're practicing tantra. And right now, my computer that I'm using to record the backup audio for this is freaking the fuck out. It is flipping back and forth, saying it's on battery off, battery on, battery off, battery. You can probably see the light flashing on my face right now from the computer absolutely losing its shit. So a lot of my students, when they're doing Anahata yoga, they will experience strange things like light bulbs exploding or fires erupting or, you know, all the. All of the electricity in their house going out, power surges, things like that. So here we go. My computer is absolutely freaking the fuck out right now. And hopefully it will record the backup audio for this. Because YouTube has been kind of shit about keeping the quality of the stream. But that's just something that happens. And if we lose the record of this, that's okay. The gods will it, that's fine. It just reminds us how important it is to embrace the moment, to embrace life. Because sometimes you're not going to have a record of these experiences. Sometimes you have to be there. You have to be in the midst of it. You have to experience it firsthand. You have to be willing to get your hands dirty and to stick your heart out. And that's what it means to practice Vajra tantra. Because the heart is the seat of the living spark. This is life. It is the seat of the individuated consciousness. And so when you practice Vamashara, Left hand path yoga, you do so from the heart. That is the foundation, the right hand path. We have the foundation in the Muadhara. So we rise from the base form of the body in the Muladhara and we reach the Sahasra and we bring together Shakti with Shiva. But the left hand path begins in the heart and that is represented by the Shat Kona. And so when you are tapping into indulgence in life, you are expressing yourself through electricity. You are throwing lightning bolts like Zeus. Zeus carries the vajra. It's his lightning bolt. Like Perun, like Jupiter and Thor and Indra and even Yahweh, because Yahweh is a storm God as well. And he has a deeply expressed will. His lightning weapon is the ark of the covenant, which is an expression of his will in the material world. And so there are many forms of the vajra. Essentially, what the vajra represents as an item. As an item. Now, not philosophically speaking, talking about the aspect of the heart, but as a physical item. Anything can be of asra. It is the manifestation, the incarnation of the heart outside of the self. So that we can pick it up, we can interact with it. And as I said, we can hand it to someone else. Giving your heart to someone else in a material form. Putting your will to power to express life in its extremity. Because that's what we're talking about here. We're talking about extremity. We're not talking about the flat life. We're not talking about detachment. We're talking about life in great passion, love. And love cannot be experienced without hate. We are talking about both things. We are talking about the point of the upward facing triangle. And the point of the downward facing triangle, the shot kona. And these represent the extremes of life. So the closer you get to the deepest expression of the Anahata, the more pain you are willing to expose yourself to and the more pleasure you're willing to expose yourself to. And that is what is represented by the heroic presence of Thor and Indra and Zeus. They are gods of passion, gods of the will, gods of the will to power. Now, when you practice Vajra tantra and you find an item that you can place your heart in. And you can recognize this thing as an expression of your will, something that is at your core. And the core expression is important because with the Anahata, we are talking about dharma. We're talking about the seat of the ego. We're talking about the seat of personality. It is the relational point. It's where all things come together. All consciousness communicates at that point. It's how we relate to other people. It's not how we unify with other people necessarily, but it's how we relate to other people. And there are, as I said, extremes. Because the heart is like a power station. You can turn the flow of electricity on and you have an explosion of power. You can turn it off and you can have absolute stillness. The extreme expression of this would be death, submission, suicide, in a sense of just refusing to continue to go on, release. And then the other end of that would be absolute embrace. And there goes my computer. So we'll shut that. Guess it's overloaded. That's fine. This will be the record. And I know that YouTube gets kind of choppy, so we'll just see. We'll see the quality of this when it's all said and done. I can always give this talk again. But no, we're here in the midst of it and that's good. This is actually a lesson. This is something that I wasn't really planning to speak about. But if you are living with great intensity, it's difficult to capture that and hold on to it in a record. It is very creative. It's of the Raja Skuna. It's very creative. And so when it happens, it happens. You're experiencing it in real time. It's those moments, those very intense moments in your life whenever you feel like you're really alive, you're really there, you're really present. Most people have been robbed of that experience because the modern world is designed in such a way where you are to be placed in submission. The heart can be expressed in an outward fashion or it can turn in on itself. This is how the will operates. You can throw lightning bolts or you can take all of it in to yourself. In terms of mudra, this is represented by the prana, mudra and apana, receiving and giving. Typically, we would receive with the right hand and we would give with the left hand because this is the active expression. So this is the throwing of lightning and the receiving of lightning. Now, when you are in a constant state of receiving and you lose the ability to express what is in your heart, what is in the core of your being, everything begins to collapse in on itself and the heart begins to atrophy. The will to continue to exist, to express yourself as an individuated personality in the active world begins to decline. You lose power like a battery that would lose juice over time or a power station that has no feedback, it has no way to discharge all of this electricity, and there's a meltdown. At some point, we all have this nuclear reactor inside of us and we have to manage the flow of prana effectively. But in the modern world, most people are placed in a condition of slavery. Whether it is direct, brutal slavery or wage slavery. Most people are told that they need to just accept the standards that have been given to them. They need to just get along with other people. They need to sit down and shut the fuck up. At least here in the United States, everyone who has experienced the public education system has been told at some point to just sit down and shut the fuck up. Do not express your will against authority. Do not Express your will against the system. If your will is crushed again and again and again, it's crushed in school, it's crushed by your family, it is crushed by your job. It is crushed by the people in your life who call themselves friends, but they don't feed lightning into you, and they don't embrace the love that you try and express out into the active world. Whenever you give lightning, your heart begins to atrophy. The anahata loses its spark. It loses its power over time. But the core of your power remains. It's there. It's there. The shell might begin to wither a little bit, but the core of who you are, your dharma, and that is your core, your Dharma is still there. So if you are told you can't worship your gods here, you cannot express your art here. You can't speak, you can't dance, you can't draw, you can't do anything unless we tell you you can. And if you have that diminishing, suffocating force surrounding you, know that your Dharma, the essential self, is still present. And if you die in this condition of being suppressed and not being able to reach self realization and attain the Atman, then that core of your Dharma will go on to take rebirth in a new form. And you will lose the personality that you possess in this life. Because it went undeveloped. You are unaware of this personality. It went unexpressed. Any attempt to suppress the expression of your Dharma is an attempt to destroy your personality for eternity, so that the personhood that you cultivate in this life has no chance to continue beyond. You have no chance to leave this world and walk with the gods with your personhood intact. So the assaults of the modern world on individuality and expression of Dharma are a direct attack on your ability to continue to exist in the cosmos. The assault on the extremity of life, the passionate embrace of life, of quality over quantity, is a direct attack on your ability to preserve the will at the heart. Express this for eternity. It is a direct attack on self, deification and godhood and polytheism and everything that we hold dear within the Aryan tradition. It is a direct attack on the beauty of life itself and art. And so what is the answer to this? How do you preserve the embrace of life in its extremity? I'm not going to quote him directly, but Nietzsche, and I am mentioning Nietzsche a lot because Nietzsche is a strong representation of the Anahata. His philosophy is a strong representation of the heart and the will to power, what we seek on the left hand path. Nietzsche said that you have to be willing to accept as much pain as the pleasure that you seek. You have to be willing to accept this great divide, this contrast. And of course, we can dial the electricity up and down. But if you don't give yourself fully to expression at least one time in your life, you won't know what's there. You cannot fully realize the self, and that requires great risk. And the universe has a way of knocking us on our ass and making us experience both sides. Both sides of the heart. Pain and pleasure, happiness and sadness, love and hate. Both sides are necessary. If you remain an individuated consciousness long enough, it's going to catch up to you. You're going to find yourself in a condition of great suffering. But on the left hand path, we don't seek to just escape suff. On the right hand path, we escape our attachments, we overcome the self. That is the goal of the ascetic path of the Ascending Yoga. But once you have escaped duality, you've reached a point of non duality where you cannot distinguish between pain and pleasure, happiness and sadness, love and hate. And there is no suffering because there is no pleasure. Once you have reached that point, you can remain in that condition of nothingness which is the anti life condition. And that is not a value judgment. I'm not saying that it's wrong for someone to pursue the anti life condition if it is their Dharma. But for many people in this world, it is not their Dharma. And they are not living. They are not truly living. They possess consciousness, they possess a degree of awareness, but that's not life. Life is fire. Life is creation, Life is electricity. It's funny how so many people can say, I just don't feel alive, just don't feel alive. I can't embrace life. I don't feel life. But we associate life with a biological condition. If my blood is pumping, if this incarnation is present in this realm and is just operating on its base biological function, which we associate with the Muladhara, we call that life. But. But that is not life. That is just existence. In a material form. Life is the spark. It is not just the material. The material can be present like in a dead body. All of the material is present, but the spark of life is gone. The greatest expression of the rejection of the Anahata is the dead body. So Savasana, in Asana practice, we would associate the corpse posture with a state of completely surrendering and giving yourself to the void, to dissolution. So it's from that point that you're no longer Feeling life. And there's a place for that, in fact, on a Right Hand path. Initiation. That's what we're seeking. We're seeking that condition of ego. Death. We want to experience death. But if we want to walk the Left Hand Path, we want to come back. If we want to achieve deification of the Atman, the individuated self, if we want to become a God, we have to come back. Reincarnation. And so everyone who completes the Right Hand Path, they come back. It is a reincarnation. They have a new life. And that new life is born in the heart, the place of the Satan. And it is within that place that the yogin begins to express that will. And how do you express that will? With the greatest intensity. You have to throw lightning. Throw lightning? You have to be like Zeus or Thor or Indra. You have to take up the lightning weapon, the vajra, and you have to express your will to power. What does that look like? Is there something that is deep in your heart that you truly love and you have passion for, but you're afraid to express it? Or people have tried to suppress this to the point where you no longer look to the chambers of your heart to see what's there? Because if you were to perceive that beautiful thing that you can no longer embrace, it would make you feel such defeat that it would be difficult to just go on living. Is there something like that deep inside of your heart that you want to express? Express it. That is how you throw lightning. You have to get loud, you have to stand firm, and you have to throw lightning. And what follows? Lightning. Thunder. When you express that thing that is essential to you. And you do it with full embrace of the beauty of just being an expressive force. When you do that, you have to listen for the thunder. What is the point of the thunder? Why does the thunder follow the lightning? Because after I throw lightning tonight, because this is what I'm passionate about. I'm passionate about expressing my dharma as a guru for my kula. And fighting the things in this world that I find to be absolutely disgusting. Like the Abrahamic system in all of its forms. I'm throwing lightning bolts at the system and tearing it down with my words. And I'm empowering other people to do the same thing. So when I throw lightning, you know what I do? I listen for the thunder. And the thunderer is the boasting. It's the applause. It's the prana that is given back. And it drowns out any bullshit that the system tries to throw back. At me. They try to tell me to shut up. They try to tell me that I'm wrong, that I need to calm down, that I, not I shouldn't live with so much passion or so much intensity. Fuck that. I embrace the intensity on purpose because it is an exercise for. For my heart, for my will. When was the last time you spoke passionately about something? When was the last time you stood up and got loud and really cared? Everyone's telling you, oh, come on, man. Just calm down. Just be cool. You know, it's like, it's not that big a deal. It is a big deal. You're alive. You've got to live. You've got to throw lightning. You've got to ride the wind. You've got to grasp the fire in your belly. You've got to see the fire borne on the wind. Express the lightning, hear the thunder. That's what it means to wield the vajra. That's what it means to wield the lightning weapon. If there is something that you're passionate about, don't let anyone tell you that you shouldn't express it. Don't let anyone suppress your love for life, your spark of life. If you hear someone expressing this will and expressing the heart and throwing lightning, then stand up and be the thunder for those people. And they will be the thunder for you. Do you think that Zeus gives a fuck what the peasants think when he throws a lightning bolt? No. He doesn't care. All he hears is the thunder. There are a lot of people who just don't have the guts. They don't have the will to be able to express themselves with strength, with intensity. But you do. You can. You can do this. And if you're scared, that's okay. Fear is a barrier that we burn up in the gut. And it's fuel. It's fuel for the tapas. It's fuel for the inner fire. So we throw that fear onto the pyre of the Manipura in the belly. And we feed that fire up into the wind and we throw lightning bolts. That's what we do. We direct ourselves in that way and express our will to power. And you can do this. And if you do experience fear and you don't know how to begin, you have to take one step, Just one step, whatever that may be. Maybe just looking in at your heart and seeing what's there, seeing what you're passionate about, seeing what life means to you. What does it mean to really be alive? That is your dharma. You find that you search for it when you find it and you know that you really, truly love something then you start to take steps to realize that thing. And just one small step is all it takes to get the ball rolling. This is the rotation of the wheel, of Dharma, of this fastika, the lightning. It's spinning. It's generating electricity inside of you. And you start taking more steps. One foot in front of the other. One step, one step, one step. Keep going, keep going, keep going. Get the momentum built up and at some point, you'll reach a stage where you're generating so much electricity that you cannot be denied. And then you're in the storm. And within the storm, you can create a lot of beautiful things. You can inspire other people. The flashes of lightning, bursts of thunder. So that's what I want you to do. If you're listening to this, don't be embarrassed. Don't doubt yourself. Look inside of the heart. See what's there. If there's something that you truly love, throw lightning. Hear the thunder. Thank you all very much for attending. Best wishes to you all.