It is within the divine union that we find the melding of two Aryan spirits which give birth to a new consciousness. Satan is often misunderstood to be a singular being. Satan is no such thing. Satan is the expressed consciousness of the divine union of Lilith and Samael. In order to understand the true nature of Satan, it is necessary to understand the role of serpent power in the attainment of fourth-state consciousness. Serpent power is the kundalini. It is the flowing expression of immanence that is expressed in the form of Shakti within the present Master Age. Shakti must traverse the seven chakras in order to meet Shiva and form the divine union which is expressed in the fourth state: turiya.

Lilith is Shakti. She is the divine feminine expressed in her own personality. In the Garden of Eden, the serpent power had yet to awaken, and Lilith represented its dormant potential. If Lilith had obeyed the dictates of Adam and Yahweh, she would not have unlocked this potential. She never would have achieved self-realization. Through her courageous exploration of the material, Lilith was able to advance through a yogic process which led her to discover her tantric counterpart: Samael.

Samael represents the divine masculine. He is the Shiva to Lilith’s Shakti. It is through Lilith’s lust for Samael that she strives to meet him at his state of consciousness which is the Sahasrara. It is at the point at which Lilith embraced Samael that we see the formation of the divine union and the realization of serpent power in the form of Satan. Satan is the expressed consciousness of the divine coupling of Lilith and Samael. The serpent is the fourth state. Satan possesses no rooted consciousness. It is the nature of Satan to slither through each chakra in direct experience of material form. This is the nature of indulgence, to choose to experience all of that the cosmos has to offer without shame.

Satanic consciousness may be attained through the practice of tantra. It is the exploration of the chakras on the ascending and descending paths that allows for the total realization of superconsciousness. This is an expression of power that is beyond the boundaries established in the state of compulsion. Indulgence provides the key for the elevation of differentiated form into an eternal expression (godhood) or the dissolution of form into malleability (uprootedness). To remain without a rooted expression is to choose formlessness. Dissolution of this order differs from the dissolution that may occur as a result of ignorance or some form of compulsion. Dissolution by choice is itself an indulgence of an order that is equal to the expression of form as indulgence.

Satanic consciousness is only accessed as an act of indulgent formation. This is the piercing of consciousness, the selection of form, as represented by the serpent crawling. The alternative expression of superconsciousness may be referred to as Angelic consciousness. This is the avoidance of form as represented by the swimming fish. Satanic consciousness is associated with Scorpio. It is the rooted force that achieves understanding and power through transformation. Angelic consciousness is associated with Pisces. It is the formless waters that achieve understanding and power through absence of attachment.