# rtt lecture - Occult Child Ritual Sacrifice

So tonight I'm going to discuss a topic that I have gotten a lot of questions on in the past, and that is ritual child sacrifice. I have made mention of the fact that I believe this is a legitimate magical practice only a few times publicly. And that has generated a lot of controversy. And I understand why it's generated a lot of controversy, because if you consider the way in which we treat children in modernity, there is a child worship culture that has formed, and the sanctity of children is something that most people claim to uphold. And so when someone is attempting to justify a specific policy, it's very common for the reasoning of I did it for the children. We must protect the children to be a primary concern, a primary justification. And this actually has magical roots in the Abrahamic tradition, which is something that we're going to explain, explore tonight. But we're not just going to explore the ethical questions surrounding child sacrifice. We're also going to talk about the mechanics of the practice and how this practice has been utilized throughout history in order to achieve a variety of goals. Because this is a very nuanced practice. And there are many different methods of the practice that can be explored. And there's a lot of cultural background that needs to be examined, because certain figures, such as Moloch, have become these controversial icons, especially within conspiratorial culture. So it's worth commenting on that cult. So let's jump right into it. Ritual child sacrifice is one of the strongest expressions of the will to power that a magician can engage in. In order to understand the metaphysical significance of this act, it's necessary to examine what it means to sacrifice a child. What is a child? Put simply, a child is a created being. And so for most people, when you think of a child, you think of a human baby. And yes, that is a child. That's the most obvious example of a child. But a child can be almost anything. A painting can be a child, a film, a work of architecture. These things can all be children. The idea of being pregnant is not limited metaphysically to the process of growing a human baby. For example, you can be pregnant with an idea, and there is a process through which this idea is manifested. And you give birth to an idea, you give birth to a movement. For example, Marx gave birth to communism. Marxism. Marxism is his child National Socialism, the child of Adolf Hitler. You have the punk scene, which you could say is like the child of Iggy Pop or the Ramones. So you can have a social superstructure and that can be a child. It doesn't have to be something that is physically manifested, it can be a stream of spirit. In fact, we would refer to these children that are not physically manifested as spiritual children. So when we say ritual child sacrifice, we don't just mean sacrifice of a human infant. There is so much more to this. What we're referring to, magically speaking, is the sacrifice of a created being, something that you have given birth to. So this is a very complex and nuanced idea. And the goal of any sort of child ritual sacrifice is transformation. Either transformation of the self, of internal conditions, or transformation of that which is external. If you're going through the process of sacrificing a child, it is an alchemical process, and the magician seeks to create some sort of reaction, as I said, either within the self or without. So why is this such a controversial practice? As I mentioned earlier, there is a connection between the idea of children assuming a very special position within a culture and the Abrahamic tradition. Prior to Yahwism, infanticide was widely practiced. Some estimates of the practice of infanticide in Neolithic cultures places the number close to half of the children born were killed by the parents or by the community. And this practice of infanticide, which is a form of ritualistic child sacrifice, continued on until the birth of the Abrahamic tradition. And specifically, it was Christianity that really solidified this idea of. Of the child as being this sacred entity that possesses a superior position over other forms of life. That's very interesting because most Christians, especially in our contemporary culture, if you brought up the idea of child sacrifice, they would say, well, that is fundamentally evil because children are innocent. They are fundamentally innocent beings. Well, that's interesting, because Christianity affirms the idea of original sin, meaning that we are all born in guilt. But there's a big difference between the doctrine within the Bible and the way that it manifests culturally in its cultural manifestation. As I said, children assume a position of superiority. They are considered to be innocent beings who have yet to be poisoned by life. And so we have now the idea that if you are to do any sort of harm to a child, you have committed the ultimate sin because you have injured something that possesses this fundamental innocence. Of course, this is absolutely absurd, because to say that something is born innocent is to assume that there is a crime to be innocent of. There is some fundamental wrongdoing that the child has been accused of. But by virtue of that being assuming the status of childhood, they are deemed innocent. So you see how this whole concept is now based upon original sin, because original sin, some primordial crime, is the only foundation for assessing whether or not something can be innocent by birth. And so when a practice like ritual child sacrifice is criticized, it's criticized primarily from this absurdist position, this idea that we're all just born innocent, and then life corrupts us. This is an anti life philosophy. It states essentially that everything around us is corrupting, ultimately, life is ultimately corrupting, ultimately dirty. And therefore, the longer you spend in this realm, the less innocent you become. And so people get caught up in this trap of assuming that a specific category of person within the culture is innocent. Now, this is the foundation of the child worship culture. And this has a major influence on the way in which societies develop. The relationship between adults and children is fundamental to the health, to the growth of that culture. Now, before we discuss the implications of this child worship culture on the development of civilization, we have to understand what is the essence of child sacrifice from a methodological standpoint. When we discuss methodology, what we're really discussing here is the pranic channels of this magic practice. And the pranic channels of this practice are influenced by the nature of the child and the relationship between the parent and the child, or the social order and the child. So let's dive into some examples of ritualistic child sacrifice. The first is sacrifice for art, artistic expression. And probably the best example of this that I can give is the life of the famous American artist Jasper Johns. So Johns is a modernist painter, and he went about cultivating his artistic spirit in a very interesting manner. Johns painted prolifically for a long, long period of time. And then he reached a point where he realized that everything that he had expressed creatively up until that point was not a dharmic expression. It was not a natural expression of. Of who he was as an artist. And so he felt confined by his creation. His creation was holding him down. It was no longer serving his will to power. And he knew that he had to do something drastic in order to bring about the alchemical reaction that would allow him to create the type of art that he truly wanted to create. So he took every single painting that he had made up until that point where he had this realization, and he destroyed them. He smashed them, he burned them. He systematically destroyed every single one of them. And in a process of sacrifice, these were his children. These were manifested beings, art. They possessed consciousness. And he destroyed them because they did not serve his purpose. And he took a drastic measure. And after he destroyed all of these paintings, he then was able to free himself. He was able to come into full alignment with his dharma and Paint his greatest works, works that are now recognized all over the world as being masterpieces. Art is essential to Aryan culture. In fact, it is the primary drive of Aryan culture. Arianism exists within the gut, the manipura, that is the foundation. It is the eternal flame. And everything within Aryan culture surrounds the artist. The artist is the Brahman. Everything that is done within the culture can be considered sacrifice in the name of artistic expression. In Aryan culture, wars are fought for the sake of art, murder for the sake of art, lying for the sake of art, cheating for the sake of art, doing whatever has to be done for the sake of upholding that which is considered to be the most holy expression, that is the brushstroke of the artist, the line of poetry written in blood. And that is a major difference from the kind of culture that we experience now in our contemporary age. Because now the artist exists as a starving artist exists within the marketplace. And art is thrown aside, it's treated as nothing more than a commodity. There's no sacred foundation for driving an entire culture towards a shared artistic expression, a shared experience of the music, of the cosmos. And so the idea of sacrificing anything of significance for art is considered to be insane and irresponsible. And so now practicality reigns supreme. But if you live in a culture where those who lead the culture are willing to destroy their own creations, when those creations become decadent, when they no longer serve the greater magical purpose of the civilization, you can rest assured that all things of beauty will be upheld and rejuvenated. And child sacrifice, in this instance, the sacrifice of an artistic creation, is the ultimate expression of that desire to maintain beauty. I just made mention of the fact that Aryan civilization is willing to go to war in order to uphold the beauty of art. But it's not just Aryan civilization that engages in ritual child sacrifice, and it is not just Aryan civilization that engages in warfare. And that brings me to my next strong example of child sacrifice as a magical process. And that is warfare. War, especially modern war, is in fact a form of child sacrifice. If you are going to engage in modern warfare, you have to be willing to accept the fact that children are going to die. Every major war that we have experienced within modernity has included mass infanticide, either intentional or as a result of collateral damage. But regardless of whether it was intentional or not, children were sacrificed in the name of advancing some cause. And this is a magical process. This is a ritual. War is ritual. Let me give an example of a very controversial and strong manifestation of child sacrifice as part of warfare. In modernity, the empire of Japan was a pagan empire. It was informed by the folk religion of the Japanese, which is the Shinto tradition. And within Shintoism, you have the Aryan idea of existing beyond good and evil. This idea of transcending duality, moralistic duality, fed the soul of the Japanese military and informed the manner in which the Japanese related to other civilizations in the process of warfare. The Rape of Nanking, which occurred when the Japanese were in the process of invading China, is an example of very brutal child sacrifice. Infants were killed en masse. They were bayoneted to death by the Japanese military because the Japanese believed that their expression of might, their expression of the will to power was something that was non negotiable. And they did not draw a distinction between the life of an adult and the life of a baby. Anything that stood in their path was an obstacle that had to be removed and it was removed. And this was the way in which Aryan warfare was conducted for thousands of years, without question, until primarily the birth of Christianity changed the narrative. Now, the actions of the Japanese, that was shocking, absolutely shocking to the world. But of course, those individuals who were shocked by the actions of the Japanese, most of them exist or existed in a comfortable bubble of delusion where they really, they honestly believe that somehow their civilization is morally superior and reached this position of might through hugs and good wishes or some other bullshit. But the fact of the matter is that every great civilization is built upon a pile of bones. And that pile of bones includes the bones of men, women and children. Now, the Aryan perspective on this is to accept this fact and recognize that if you want to build an empire and to apply the will to power, you have to be willing to make sacrifices, not just of your own people, but what of other people? In fact, the focus should be on sacrifice of the other, because you're trying to preserve that which you find to be beautiful. And that is a relative concept. Beauty truly is in the eye of the beholder. And so if you're willing to uphold that which is beautiful, you have to be willing to destroy that which is ugly, that which holds you back, which holds your civilization back, which prevents you from reaching the heights that you are attempting to achieve. And you can't do this effectively if you believe in good and evil. You can't do this effectively if you undercut your ability to act with extreme brutality. Because if you're not willing to act with extreme brutality, someone eventually will be, and they will overtake your civilization. Your civilization will fall into decadence because it exists In a state of self contradiction, cognitive dissonance. Everyone wants the bacon, but. But nobody wants to know where it came from. Nobody wants to see the pigs slaughtered. Now, so far I've discussed the idea of child sacrifice in a manner that is quite violent, seems to lack compassion. But there is another aspect of this form of magic that is in fact rooted in compassion. I made mention of the fact that infanticide was something that was a common occurrence within civilization prior to modernity, prior to the rise of Christianity and Islam. And so we can say that that which existed prior to Christianity was for the most part Aryan in nature. Any sort of civilization that advanced towards, towards patriarchal state was Aryan in nature at that time. And under those conditions, if a child was born with a birth defect, life would be very difficult for that child and it's unlikely that child would survive. And so what do you do if you're born with a child that cannot contribute to the civilization? You don't have modern technology to support the life of that child. That child will live in torment. You kill the child. That was the decision that was made by your ancestors under most circumstances, of a child being born with any sort of defect, that child would be left in the wilderness or just would be killed outright. Also, what do you do if you exist within a civilization or you exist within a family structure? What, where you cannot support a child because of a lack of resources or some other condition that makes it impossible to support the child? Do you allow this child to bring everyone down with it? Do you just breed mindlessly until your entire civilization collapses and you all starve to death? Or do you make an effort to maintain a healthy population level so those people who are born with an able body, able spirit, able mind, are able to live a beautiful life? Well, if your goal is to create a beautiful life for yourself and for others, then you practice population control, which, like I said, is something that all of our ancestors did routinely. And when you're placed in a situation where you have to make such a difficult decision, one way that you can sanctify the process is through ritualistic magic. If you exist within a condition where you have been given two options, either you starve, you suffer and die with your child, or you sacrifice the child and you live. The choice is clear. You can't allow everyone to drown if there's no way that the child can survive. If it is guaranteed that the continuation of directionless breeding will lead to the complete collapse of the civilization. Sacrifice is the way. And you sanctify that sacrifice through communion with the gods. And this is where we find the practice of ritualistic sacrifice in mass of infants to the gods. Primarily, this practice was conducted in the past as a means of controlling the population, making sure that life was held to a high standard, making sure that resources were directed effectively. And when the children were sacrificed, not in every instance, but in many instances, they were sacrificed in the name of a God of a specific culture. And one of those cults was the cult of Moloch. Now, Moloch gets a very bad name in our contemporary culture because he's associated with elitist practices. And there is an elitist element to this. Like I said, the whole idea of conducting such a sacrifice is to uphold a specific standard for yourself and for your civilization. So in some instances, children were sacrificed to Moloch because there was scarcity of resources. It was a necessity. Children were sacrificed because they were born with a birth defect and we lacked modern medical technology. So we could not keep that infant alive for a long period of time. It was just going to suffer or it was going to live a life of absolute pain. And so the child was given to Moloch. Now, what about those instances where someone just sacrifices their child in pursuit of power, Just power alone? The child's perfectly healthy. There's plenty of resources to support the child. But this individual has decided that they would rather gain power through the sacrifice of their child than to have their child around. In terms of determining whether or not such an action is appropriate, you have to look at the dharma of the individual. Is it that individual's dharma to sacrifice their child? Well, such a dharma is incredibly rare. But those types of people do exist, just like serial killers exist. Some people are born to be serial killers. Some people are born to be pedophiles. Some people are born to do the most deplorable things you can possibly imagine. But we have to remember that our assessment of these actions are relative assessments. Yeah, I mean, I can recognize that some people are born to be pedophiles, but do I have to put up with it? Fuck, no. I can do something about it because my dharma conflicts with the dharma of that individual. The same goes for ritual child sacrifice. If you don't like the practice, you have to examine, well, is this practice dharmic? Is it natural to me? If it's not natural to you? If it's not dharmic to you, then maybe you want to do something about the practice to stop the practice. And then maybe you'll become a pacifist and you'll seek to end War. And you'll seek to eliminate scarcity and make sure that everyone can be taken care of in the world. And people have tried to do that. I'm not saying that it's impossible to do that. But so far such actions have done more harm than good because they've led to, for example, conditions in Africa where the introduction of modern medical technology to African tribes has led to a massive increase in the population of Africa and has led to declining living standards for the African people and a massive food crisis. People are starving in Africa. They've always been starving in Africa, but now they're starving in mass. Much greater starvation than in the past. And that's because the African people, the tribal people, breed differently than Christians living in modern Europe. The women have a lot more children. It's part of their nature. It's their dharmic expression to just have a lot of children. Because most of the children die, or they used to die, but now they're living. And so what do you do with all of these people? Well, you got to come up with a solution. Either you feed them or you let them starve, where you kill a bunch of them off. But there's got to be a solution at some point. It's just a hard fact of life. And it's only a hard fact of life if you make it difficult. Because if you just accept that this is part of the cosmos, that death and violence and destruction and brutality, all of these things, they are part of the cosmos. If you can understand that, you won't have this internal contradiction. These decisions won't be so hard for you. But we live in a child worship culture, and anything can be justified in the name of children. Anything. And that's a dangerous condition to exist within. Because as I said in the past, if your attention is drawn towards beauty in your civilization or your attention is drawn towards a high standard of living, your people are going to be of a higher caliber. They're going to be more in line with their dharma on average, because they're focusing on their cultivation of the self. But if all of your attention is drawn towards the child, now you're willing to accept conditions of slavery, of wage slavery, just so you can feed your child, just so you can buy your child more useless shit at Christmas, just so you can keep yourself barely alive, so you can abandon all art from your life, so you can abandon all higher purpose, because, hey, at least I have a child. See, that's what has occurred. If you elevate the child to this primary position within your culture, you can't have an Aryan culture. Just keeping a child alive has now become the standard of everything in society. What's the first thing that the UN talks about when they start talking about improving conditions within third world countries? Infant mortality rate. What's the infant mortality rate? We got to fix the infant mortality rate. We gotta make things better for the kids. We gotta, you know, UNICEF has to be collecting money so we can send fucking Nikes to the kids in Africa and shit like that. That's what everything is directed towards. And it's divorced from reality because like I said, every single civilization of note within modernity was built upon brutal warfare. But nobody wants to make mention of that now. The practice of infanticide, which is an Aryan practice, was only halted recently, very recently. And since that time there has been a lot of controversy surrounding birth control and abortion. Now I'm going to say something that most people who claim to be interested in Aryan culture would probably disagree with or find to be very objectionable. But abortion is an Aryan practice. And the prevalence of abortion within the culture is an attempt to regain the status of a healthy population control and a healthy means of resource direction and the elevation of art and quality of life over quantity of life. But this is a major threat to the continuation of Abrahamic culture. Because Abrahamic culture is based upon wage slavery. It's based upon directing everyone towards base material existence so that higher ideas of art are abandoned and people become slavish, they become submissive. They don't strive for more than the bare minimum. And everyone is told that the bare minimum, what you need to be considered a quality human being is you need to be married and you need to have children. That is the Abrahamic standard, not the Aryan standard. Of course families are important within Arianism, but it's not the most important thing. But the nuclear family within Abrahamism becomes a mechanical structure through which individuals are indoctrinated into the marketplace. And it's not in pursuit of beauty. People are having children now so that they can be a multi generational Burger King worker. Why? What's the reason? These people are not considering the quality of their life. They're not directed towards a higher purpose. So it's just mindless breeding. And abortion is an attempt by some individuals to retake their autonomy and be able to direct their life towards a dharmic expression outside of this crazy culture where the only thing that is considered is that which is economic, the marketplace. Life is not art anymore, Life is not poetry anymore. But some people want it to be. Some people want to live a happy life. Some people want to have control over whether or not they have a child, just like our ancestors had control over whether or not they wanted a child. But see, the difference is now you can do it in a way where the child is at a state of consciousness that is not even indicative of human consciousness. The fetus is in a state that is below. The muladhara, has not reached any reflection of consciousness that we could consider to be human, and does not reach that point until much later on in the development of the child. So when you kill this child in a state where consciousness hasn't yet developed to what we would consider to be human consciousness, you're doing something that's quite different from taking a rock and bashing in the head of an infant, or taking an infant and leaving it in the wilderness for the wolves to rip it to pieces. It's much different than taking an infant and setting it on the hands of the burning bull. But it is still killing a child. It is still ritualistic child sacrifice. The Christians are right about that. But is it evil? Well, if you're an Aryan, you don't believe in good and evil. You recognize that it is a falsity, it's a trap, it's a matrix that you can escape. Once you achieve transcendence and you go beyond duality, you can recognize that fact, and then you are liberated, and you could take the necessary action to pursue your dharma. But the child worship culture is now clashing with this new satanic culture, which is developing and continues to develop and is growing stronger all the time. So we are at a turning point in history. And the way that we orient ourselves, the way that we direct ourselves towards the question of children and their place in society and standards of living versus just living for bare sustenance. Whether or not we want to elevate art to its highest point, these are questions we have to ask ourselves. And we have to reassess our relationship to the idea of innocence, to the idea of good and evil. And once we do this, maybe, just maybe, we can reach a point of a true expression of the will to power.