# The Right Hand Path Part 1 - The Mountain

Tonight we are going to discuss the Right Hand Path within the Agra Yoga as well as a general assessment of the nature of the Right Hand Path. The Right Hand Path practice that I teach within Viagra Yoga is a revitalization of the original tradition within Tantra. There are specific practices that are unique to the school. And the general approach that we take within this school is unique in the fact that this is the only school which utilizes rooted consciousness. I developed rooted consciousness. So as it stands, if you want to explore Kundalini utilizing this system, this school is the only option now. I hope that changes in the future because I want rooted consciousness to be utilized by everyone. It's a revolutionary idea and it is a powerful system and it can bring about a lot of good in the world. So I encourage people to utilize the system. Now, this discussion is going to be part one in a series of lectures. And this series is going to describe each state of consciousness based upon the chakras and go into the concepts surrounding the methodology of Kundalini Yoga as taught within this school from each state of consciousness. In this talk, I'm going to give a general overview the practice, but I'm not going to go into specifics regarding the practices that we may engage in at each point in the journey up the spine. Okay, so what is Kundalini? That's the first thing that we need to understand before we can describe the Right Hand Path properly. Kundalini is an ancient yogic method. It is a generalized practice, a form of magic with the goal of achieving unification of the self, or yoga, the state of yoga through advancement up the spine, the harnessing of serpent power or the Kundalini energy located in the Muladhara. Taking that energy up the spine through each chakra until you reach the Sahasra. This process represents the movement of Shakti from the base of the body up to Shiva at the crown. Now, when I say that this is a method within yoga, what I mean is that there is a specific focus on the movement of Kundalini, the serpent energy up the spine. That is the method. And so there are many different ways that you can go about this. My method is not the only way Kundalini can be accomplished without any sort of formal practice. You can accidentally bring Shakti to Shiva. You can do this as part of a formal yogic practice as well. You can do this through the use of drugs. You can do this through totally sober. There are so many different ways that you can practice Kundalini. But so long as the serpent Shakti is brought to the crown. Shiva, you are practicing Kundalini now. What is the Right Hand path? There's a lot of confusion regarding the nature of the Right Hand Path versus the Left Hand Path. And I'm going to clarify what these things are within the tradition of Tantra. The Right Hand path is a transitional phase. It is a process of refinement. It is not the state of being in a love and light new age hug, the world mentality. That is a major point of confusion, A major degeneration from the original tradition. Put simply, the Right Hand path is the process of unifying the self by exploring each state of consciousness and bringing shakti into unification with Shiva. And once this unification is achieved, you reach transcendence. Transcendence is the ultimate goal of the Right Hand path. The Right Hand path is not a lifestyle. It's not something that you take up and then you continue on the Right Hand path forever. If you continue on the Right Hand path indefinitely, it means that you have failed. The goal is to reach a specific point, the point of transcendence. And once you reach transcendence, you achieve ego death. Now, most of you are aware, most of the people who are listening to this are aware of the fact that I celebrate the ego as something that is good. And that is because ultimately this is a Left Hand Path school, meaning that we recognize immanence as possessing equal value with transcendence. Most schools that teach the Right Hand path believe that once you have destroyed the ego, you have achieved the goal of every human life which is to exist as a part of oneness in a state of unification with the Godhead or the monistic point or whatever the fuck you want to call it. Yes, it is true. If you want to achieve power, you need to destroy the ego. If you want to gain power, you must first despise power. You must recognize the poison that is inherent in power. Because the ego is poisonous. Make no mistake though. I elevate the ego and I claim that it is a good thing. And I know that it is a good thing and I affirm that it should be celebrated. I also recognize that just as the ego can bring you power, it can also destroy you. Through embrace of the ego prior to the journey of refinement, you may fall victim to self immolation. So why is it that the ego is so poisonous? And why would we want to engage in a practice that would lead to the death of the ego if ultimately our goal is to become powerful as an individuated being? The ego is poisonous because we are all born into a state of unrefined shakti. Shakti, the divine feminine force, is the foundation of all experience, all creation. Within the present age, we exist within the master age of Shakti, in contrast with the master age of Shiva. From the perspective of the Yuga cycle, there are two Yugas that exist within the master age of shakti, the Dvapara Yuga and the Kali Yuga. And within both of these Yugas, we exist as embodied beings. So what does it mean to be embodied? We are speaking specifically of the physical self, the physical manifestation of the body, which is the foundation of all experience. Within the Kali Yuga, it is the platform of consciousness. The pyramid of the self is structured like this. In our present age, we have at the foundation the body, the physical body, the blood. Then we have inner fire, passion, creativity, the cosmic womb. Next we have the mind, introspection, imagination, contemplation, the beginning, the foundation of contemplation. And then we have, at the capstone of the pyramid, spirit, the subtle body, that which unifies, that which gives us access to shared experience. The way that the body works, the manner in which we experience the self and everything that surrounds the self is entirely dependent upon the structure of the pyramid within a given age. As I said, we exist in the Kali Yuga. So the body, the blood, is the foundation. And this has a major influence on the way that we perceive reality, because the body is the foundation. Everything that is physical, everything that is a gross expression or a natural expression, is immediately perceptible. That's easy. It's easy to recognize flesh and blood. It's easy to recognize, you know, a floor when you're standing on a support. It's easy to recognize a wall when you place your hand against it and you can lean into it. It's easy to recognize a rock. As you advance up the pyramid of the self, it becomes more difficult to recognize that aspect while you're in an unrefined state. Now you can reach a point where you can access and recognize with equal awareness every element of the self. But that requires yoga and that requires kundalini and the Right Hand Path. So we have inner fire, the next step up. That includes the emotional element of the self. And emotions, they are something that you can see in other people. It's something that you can feel very deeply. There is a physical component to emotions. They impact the way that your body operates. When you're sad, you may cry. When you're happy, you may laugh or smile. There's this intense physical component, but it's not so cut and dry as flesh and blood. So things are becoming a bit more subtle at that point. Then you have the mind. Now, the mind is far more subtle than pure emotion. Because the mind is something you can't see in another person. It's totally internal. And so the mind can operate in communication with emotion, in communication with flesh and blood. But it's very hard to capture and hold. You can't touch it because it is of a subtle nature. It is an aspect of the self that is related to the contemplative chakras which are associated with Shiva. And like I said, we are in the master age of shakti. So those chakras that are associated with the active state or shakti are the immediately perceptible chakras. Now, after that, we have the spirit. Now, the spirit is the most subtle point. It's the sahasra within our body. You find it at the crown. And so this is associated with the subtle body. This is where you have connection to those things that most people in our present age would probably reject or apply some skepticism towards. Even religious people who make claims that they believe in some higher power. They hold reservations regarding the nature of the spirit because it is so experiential and it is so difficult to access. And since we operate from a foundation of that which is physical, it makes sense that most people lacking a direct experience of the concentrated aspect of consciousness in the contemplative chakras, would look upon the spirit and everything that is accessed through the spirit with great skepticism. I've said in the past that in the Kali Yuga, God is like a whisper on the wind. That which exists beyond the immediate state of consciousness. The immediate dimension of consciousness, I should say, is very, very difficult to perceive. You have to work very hard to access that point. And how do you do it? Well, like I said, you can go through a kundalini process accidentally. You can fall into it. And some people, they do this, and it works for them. You can have an experience like taking drugs. For most people, this won't work because they lack the prior understanding to conceptualize the experience, to understand its significance. And so they're caught in a loop of constantly searching for that point just before transcendence, which is where the drug will bring them. The drug won't just give them transcendence. It will bring them to the brink. And then they require the necessary knowledge, the necessary understanding to be able to take that final step into the monistic point, into transcendence. But most people who utilize drugs as a way to achieve ego death fail because they don't understand what is occurring once they reach that point. And so they continue to use the drugs over and over again, and they convince themselves or they tell themselves that what they're experiencing each time they use that drug is an ego death, but it's not. They're chasing the dragon at that point. And in fact, that is how psychedelics can become addictive. They might not be physically addictive, if you want to define an addictive substance as something that causes a chemical change in your body that forces you into a state where you demand more of that substance. But they are spiritually addictive. And that is just as potent as anything that is physically addictive. So I don't recommend that most people attempt to achieve yoga through drug use. What I recommend for most people is to pursue yoga through a formal initiation on the Right Hand Path. Now, you don't have to do it that way. There are people who possess the necessary power to be able to achieve yoga independently without the guidance of any guru. And you can do this. And people have done this successfully. But I don't recommend it because yoga is extremely dangerous. The Right Hand Path is dangerous. We are dealing with drastically altered states of consciousness, not just subtle manifestations. I mean, totally upending your consciousness and bringing you into states that directly challenge you, undercutting your foundation, forcing you to assess that which is weak within you, Uprooting that weakness, destroying it, and then advancing up the spine. Climbing the mountain. That's what we do in this school. We climb the mountain. So what does that look like, to climb the mountain? First, we begin with preliminary practices that prepare the body for the journey ahead. Like I said, this talk is part of a series. And I'm going to go into great detail regarding the practices that we employ at each stop along the way as we advance up the spine. But for now, I'm just going to give a general overview. We begin by preparing the body for Kundalini for the Right Hand Path. And this requires entering into a state of consciousness where you are firm enough in your awareness, where you are stable enough to be able to safely advance. The means by which we reach that point of stability vary greatly depending upon the individual. And if anybody tells you that Kundalini or the Right Hand Path, is straightforward and you can utilize this one method, and everyone can utilize this one method in order to achieve transcendence, they are bullshitting you. Because we each possess our own dharma, our individuated nature. And part of the process of yoga is exploring what Is your dharma? How do you access it? How do these various elements of consciousness, as represented by the chakras, interact with one another in order to create a unique individual? And so if you're working with a guru who knows what they're doing, they're going to give you individuated instruction. There are certain generalized practices that can be utilized. There are certain milestones that everyone should meet along the way. But there are many paths up the mountain. There are many paths that lead to these various checkpoints. And that's why it is so important to have a guru, because your guru should be able to identify what you need on an individual level in order to advance through all of the potential maladjustments at each state of consciousness. So in order to prepare for this, in Viagra Yoga, in the method of the Right Hand path that I teach, we start with entering the kriya state. The kriya meditative state is the passive observation state that is contrasted with one pointedness. The reason why we do this is because we want to reach a state of meditation that we can maintain consistently throughout the day. Meditation is not something that you just practice when you sit down in a meditative asana and close your eyes and relax. Meditation is a state of being and one pointedness, unless you possess a very rare dharma, is not a state that you want to be in consistently because it will drive you fucking insane. But most people are forced into a state of one pointedness by society. Because if you are part of the machine, if you are a cog in the machine and they place you on your spot in the assembly line, they want you doing one task over and over again. Being in a state of passive observation and meditation is not good for business because it's going to draw your attention away from the task that you have been assigned to. And you might start thinking about, oh, wait a minute. Why the fuck does that Coca Cola commercial make me horny? What are they doing to my brain? What the fuck is going on here? Why did my doctor give me this pill and tell me, you know, I need to cool it and take this pill every day so I can feel happy? Why do I have to have a pill to be happy? My ancestors didn't have to have a fucking pill to be happy. If you can stay in a state of one point in this, then you're easily controlled. You're in a state of reactivity. When they shove the advertising in your face that's supposed to entice you, you're going to react to it immediately. And it's going to draw you into their world, and you're living by their standards. And you're going to take action. You're going to take action because you are in a state of unrefined Shakti. Shakti being the active principle in the cosmos in comparison to the receptive state at Shiva. They want you to be active. They want you to be unrefined, imminent in your expression. And they want to keep you in focus, put you at a desk from the time you're five years old until you're 18. And they tell you every day, shut your fucking mouth. Watch the teacher. Listen to what I have to say. Don't fucking get up and look out the window. Fuck the birds in the trees and the blue sky. You. You sit right here in this cold, barren piece of shit room that the government paid for. And you listen to what I said and you do your work and don't divert your attention anywhere because if you do, you're bad. You're wrong. And we'll give you a pill and we'll send you to the principal's office. And if you become too much of a problem, we'll kick you out of the school because we don't want the other kids seeing that. You know, hey, there might be another option here. Maybe we can rebel against this whole thing and upend the entire system. They don't want that. So they've got to keep you in that state of one pointedness. We as yogins want to escape that state of one pointedness immediately, as soon as possible, so that we can reduce our reactivity and we can start to take control of ourselves. Because ultimately, that's what we want. We want power. We want self control. And we can't have that self control until we bring Shakti under our power. We cannot be at the control of Shakti. We cannot allow her to dictate the way that we behave. Because when we allow Shakti to dictate the way that we behave, we are in a state of compulsion. And ultimately, the Right Hand Path is all about removing compulsion so that when we reach the Left Hand Path, we can engage with indulgence. There's a big difference between those two. Compulsion means you don't have a choice. They give you a cookie and you fucking eat it. Indulgence. They give you the cookie and you say, hmm, do I want this? Yeah, I do want this. I take it and I eat it and I enjoy it. Because I have a choice. I'm not just reacting. I'm not just a wild Animal I have gained by humanity. I am able to express my will. That's what we want. Most people do not possess the ability to express their will in this manner. They exist almost entirely in a state of reactivity. So we want to eliminate one pointedness, and we do this in Viagra Yoga on the right hand path through two initial practices, Pranayama nadi shodhana and trataka. With the pranayama nadi shodhana, we are accessing the pranic channels of Shiva and Shakti and we're bringing them into balance. When we bring these pranic channels into balance, we are at the point of unification as intention. When we have set an intention towards unification, it is at this point that we are practicing yoga. And everything, everything in life becomes yoga. And what is yoga? It is magic. Yoga is just a Sanskrit word for magic. We are practicing magic. You can call us yogins, you can call us yogis, you can call us magicians or witches or warlocks or wizards, whatever the fuck you want to call us. It doesn't matter, because we're doing one thing. We are applying our will in a process of transformation. That's what we're doing. So once we begin the path of magic and we have accessed this intention of unification through pranayama nadi shodhana, we follow up this practice with trataka, Trataka, the candle gazing meditation. And we begin with a candle. And if you can't use a candle, you use something else, like a dot on the wall. But the principle remains the same. We have a passive focus point with trataka. And with that passive focus point, we can begin to chip away at all the damage that society has done to us by forcing us into a state of one pointedness. We have to escape that. We have to be able to see the forest for the trees. We have to be able to pick up an acorn and not just see that acorn and be totally obsessed with that acorn. We need to be able to see the acorn and simultaneously see the beautiful forest, see the blue sky, hear the birds chirping, smell the air, smell the leaves in the air. All of it. We need to experience all of it at once. And we can draw our attention, our awareness, to different elements around us, but not be so intensely focused that we lose sight of everything else. We need to be able to access that point of passive awareness, and we need to make that state of passive awareness into our primary operating state so that we can finally free ourselves from the rat race. Okay, so consistency is Key at this point, because you've had years of brainwashing in the system. It takes time and consistency to break that brainwashing. So you utilize your pranayama technique, your nadi shodhana, and you utilize your trataka. And you do it every day. Even if it's only for 10 minutes, you do it anyway. Because doing that, experiencing that beautiful freedom for just 10 minutes each day, is enough to overcome years of system bullshit. Because that freedom, that power that you experience in those moments when you're engaging with your practice, it is so sweet that it overruns everything. All of that weak magic that's been forced upon you has nothing on the fire that's in your belly or the will that's in your heart. So we begin with those practices, and you continue that for a week or two or longer, however long it takes until you reach a point of receptivity where someday you wake up or during your practice, you finish and you. And you realize, wait a minute. There's a lot more to this world than what I realized. Because somebody has been pulling the veil over my eyes and now it's removed and I can see again. And now that you have pierced through that veil and you have seen your potential, there's no turning back. You are on the mountain. And the only way that you can fail at this point is to stop climbing. You can't go back once your illusion is broken. You can try, but you will fail. You must proceed. If you don't, you fail. So you begin the process of climbing the mountain. And that's when you explore altered consciousness. Now, rooted consciousness has revolutionized the way that we practice Kundalini. Because in the past, the idea was that there is a hierarchy of chakras of consciousness. And we begin at the least valuable state of consciousness, which is the Muladhara. And as we advance, we are unlocking or opening the chakras, and then we are gaining some sort of boon, some sort of power from unlocking these chakras until we reach the Sahasra, which is the ultimate chakra, the chakra of the highest value. And then we stay there. Like I said, this is the bias of the transcendently oriented schools. And those schools that have a bias towards transcendence are going to apply this really ridiculous, petty morality that has nothing to do with the tradition of tantra. In assessing the nature of the chakras, I realized after years of practice and absorbing this dogma from these Right Hand Path schools that, well, and I was informed by my upbringing in the Left hand Path. I realized that the way they were portraying consciousness was totally wrong. Because if you're trying to escape duality and reach transcendence, you have to recognize that each state of consciousness must possess equal value. It's ridiculous to assign this qualitative hierarchy that is absolutely true, universal for all people. I started to realize also that the idea of unlocking chakras, unblocking them, is utter bullshit. Because I realized that these chakras relate to elements within the self. This is something I had to discover on my own because the tradition had been lost, obscured for thousands of years. And so I realized that, okay, I possess a mind. I possessed a mind before I began the kundalini process. So I don't need to unblock the vishudi in order to have a mind. I already have a mind. I don't need to unblock the muladhara in order to have a blood body, a racial body, a physical body. I already have that. So these aren't things that you gain over time through the process of kundalini. What you gain through the process is understanding awareness of that which exists within you. And by achieving altered consciousness. Which, by the way, is another thing that you can accidentally fall into with all of the other yoga schools on the planet. You can accidentally fall into that, but they're not going to give you the proper context of what it means to be in that altered state. Or you can do it willfully with a framework of understanding, which is what Viagra, Yoga and rooted consciousness offers, a framework of understanding. We can, through meditative techniques, access altered states of consciousness and experience the world through the eyes of another person. And we can start to understand how these elements play a role in our own development, in our own expression of consciousness. And we do that sequentially because there is still that element of taking Kundalini, which is the name of the serpent, power, Shakti, bringing her up the spine to the Sahasra. So we begin in the natural form, that which is immediately perceptible in the muladhara. This is the most obvious element of the self. And we advance through that which is subtle. And through this process, we begin to identify maladjustments. Now, this concept of maladjustment is very important because there is potential for each chakra to bring us power or to undermine our power. And so we have to, in order to understand what is present within each state of consciousness, we have to enter into those states. Utilizing the techniques that I have developed for this school. We can enter into the state of consciousness such as the muladhara and we can see what's in there. So for my students that I have in direct private instruction, I place them in an altered state of consciousness, and then I give them a series of exercises that they utilize in order to explore that state of consciousness and identify what about this state of consciousness is leading them to compulsion, what is bringing them to a state of attachment, what is keeping them from advancing towards ego death? Because that is our ultimate goal, the ego being the ultimate poison that we must bring under our control. So we identify in the Muladhara, what is it, what is keeping us grounded, what is keeping us from moving forward. And then we utilize yogic practices in order to address those problems, in order to address those maladjustments. And once we have done that, once we have completely adjusted that state of consciousness and, and we have cleared out all the clutter and we know that state of consciousness, then we advance to the next state. So you go from Muladhara to the Svadhisthana to the Manipura Anahata Vishuddhi Ajna Sahasra, applying these principles at each state. And when you reach the Sahasra, your goal is to have a clear light experience, to reach transcendence, to kill the ego, you have to die so that you may be reborn on the Left Hand Path. Now, it's important to understand that when you are practicing the Right Hand Path, your experience of consciousness, of altered consciousness, is altered by the fact that you have set this intention towards ego death. There will be a natural tendency for the Kundalini energy, the serpent power, to want to continue to rise. So when you shift into the Muladhara, as you get closer to eliminating those maladjustments within that state, you're going to start to experience signs that it's time to move on to the Svadhisthana. You're going to start experiencing elements of the Svadhisthana. And when you know that you have addressed each of these issues. And that's why. Another reason why it's so important to work with a guru is because the guru can help you to identify whether or not you truly have released all of your attachments. You truly have overcome all of your compulsions. Because if you move forward prematurely, you'll have to go back and address those compulsions that are holding you down and keeping you from reaching transcendence. So it's very important, if you're going to be in an independent practice, to be very honest with yourself, to determine whether or not you truly have eliminated those maladjustments. But Like I said, there will be signs. The serpent will try to continue up the spine. And the manner in which you experience this altered state of consciousness. Will be different than on the left hand path. Because the intention that you set colors the experience. Ultimately, over the course of the right hand path practice. Your goal will be to feel less and less attached to this dimension of consciousness. Less and less attached to your individuated expression of ego. Now, this is dangerous because it can lead to a lot of turmoil. For one, when you begin the process of. Excuse me. When you begin the process of freeing yourself from the entanglements of the system. That's going to piss off a lot of people. Because most people are cowards. They will not take action to change their circumstances. They will not take risks. They will toe the line. They'll be a good little boy, good little girl. And do everything that the system tells them to do. And if you start to break free, which you will start to do if you practice kundalini, if you start to break free, people will, one, become very jealous of you. Two, they'll feel like they no longer have control over you. So they'll want to get you under their thumb again. And three, they'll feel like there's pressure now on them to be better. And they don't want to be better. They want to remain in their comfortable cage. But you can't let those people hold you back. Once you have set the intention to realize your Dharma and to master the self, you have to continue. Anything else is failure. Failure is not an option. So you have to be aware of the fact that when you begin this process, it can cause a lot of trouble. It can cause a lot of social trouble. It can cause you to reassess your own nature. And it can expose things about you that you don't want exposed, that you don't want to confront. But you must remember throughout the whole process that ultimately, so long as you are pursuing your Dharma, you are living perfectly. And you are doing what is best for you. And what is therefore best for all those you love. Because if you cannot be a fully expressed version of yourself, if you cannot know the self, then you can only love as a half measure. You can only hate as a half measure. You can only experience the cosmos as a half measure. And anyone who truly loves you, anyone who truly appreciates your individuated expression within the cosmos. Your line in the cosmic symphony is going to want to experience the full thing, everything that you have to offer. Your total expression, the flame burning strong. So you have to hold that, you have to hold that awareness with you. You have to keep that flame. You have to bear that torch in the darkness and run with it and hold it. And know that if you reach the peak of the mountain, no matter what is on the other side, it is worth pursuing. Because ultimately it is you. Whether your Dharma is to unify with God or to become an individuated being fully realized, it's you, it's what you were meant to be. And so it is worth pursuing. Now, the Kundalini Right Hand Path method that I have developed is ultimately geared towards the Left Hand Path. And so I don't require my students to go live in an ashram unless it's absolutely necessary. It's not a requirement, but if it's necessary, I might recommend that they do that. But for the most part, for most people, that's not necessary. Because I don't believe that modernity is evil. I believe that there is great potential for beauty and ugliness in everything, including modernity. And so the practices that we engage in within this school are designed so that you can exist within modernity. You can have a family, you can have a job, you can live. Because ultimately this is a life affirming school. You can live, you can be, and you can at the same time pursue self mastery. These are not contradictory paths unless you possess a very rare dharma that requires you to go live in an ashram. But ultimately this is a Left Hand path school. So if your practices on the Right Hand Path are interfering with your ability to function, you have to stop and assess whether or not this is dharmic. Is this natural to you? Is this part of what will bring you to self mastery? Or is it just a maladjustment? What is it? If you're working with a guru, that answer can be brought to you quickly. If they're a good guru, they can guide you and they can tell you, yes, you need to make a change. No, you don't need to make a change. Yes, that job is good for you, or it's not good for you because they can see if they have. If they've truly practiced Kundalini and they know the process, they understand consciousness. At least at some level. Maybe they don't understand rooted consciousness, but at some level they understand consciousness. Then they can give you guidance that is valuable. When you're in the midst of the Right Hand Path, there are many pitfalls. It's easy to get trapped in a state of consciousness and stay there for a long period of time and be Absolutely miserable and fall under all of the maladjustments that can possibly manifest within that state. So you have to be aware of that fact that can happen. Also, you have to be aware of the fact that at the end of this journey, you might be a totally different person than you were at the beginning. And the people around you might not like that, but it's too bad for them and everyone else in the world, because that's you. And you're doing no one a favor by living a lie. So once you have completed the Right Hand Path and you reach this point of transcendence, that is when you can begin to practice the Left Hand Path. These people who claim to be practicing the Left Hand Path, who don't even know what the Right Hand Path is, who don't even know what transcendence is, who have never actually practiced Yoga, they're not really practicing the Left Hand Path. Likely what they're doing is dressing up like Marilyn Manson and having a good time. And that's fine. You can do that. But don't call it the Left Hand Path, because that's a load of shit. You're just confusing people. And I mean, you can't blame most of these people for using terms like the Left Hand Path, because it's all gotten so confused. But most of these people who claim to be practitioners of the Left Hand Path are totally compulsive. They're not living in indulgence. And also this idea that the Right Hand Path, oh, that's the path of the white light and everything's nice and doves are flying and we're all just fucking eating Wonder Bread all day long or some shit like that, that is just a load of shit. The Right Hand Path can be very dark and disturbing. And usually it is because we're dealing with maladjustments and rooting them out and fixing them. The Left Hand Path, the idea that the Left Hand Path is like, you know, some dark castle at night surrounded by lightning and everybody's dancing to the Sisters of Mercy or something, that's a load of bullshit too, because the Left Hand Path is simply the path of self realization. And so with this path of self realization, you can be anything. The Left Hand Path in its representation within the cosmos is as varied as there are people in the world. You can walk the Left Hand Path and look like Mr. Rogers, and you can walk the Right Hand Path and be Ted Bundy. So it's time to destroy that myth that the Right Hand Path, oh, that's the good. That's The Good Witch Magic and the Left Hand Path. That's the bad Naughty Witch Magic. No, that's not how it works. You have to. If you're going to really walk the Left Hand Path, you have to achieve ego death. Because the Left Hand Path begins when you are reborn. And at this point of rebirth, this is when you choose to be dissolved into oneness or to become a self realized individual. And if you haven't gone through that baptism in the sun and achieved ego death, you are not a Left Hand Path yogin. Now just to summarize, the Right Hand Path is something that is deeply misunderstood. And the Left Hand Path is something that is deeply misunderstood in modernity. The Right Hand Path is not a lifestyle. It is a method for achieving a very specific goal. That goal being ego death, mastery of the self. Once you have achieved this, then you may walk the Left Hand Path until you have achieved ego death. Even if you call yourself a Left Hand Path magician, you are not a Left Hand Path magician. The Right Hand Path requires dealing with all of our attachments, all of our compulsions, in each element of the self, in body, in inner fire, in mind, in spirit and everything in between. We have to assess each state of consciousness. We have to expand our awareness, that is the Tantric element. We are expanding our awareness of these states. We're coming into full realization of the self. Because you can't deny the self, you can't reject the self, you can't kill the ego unless you know what it contains. And once you know what it contains, you can kill it. And once you've killed it, then you have released yourself from compulsion. You have released yourself from that which is destructive. In shakti, the unrefined Shakti, you've gone through a process of refinement. And then at that point when there is unification between Shiva and Shakti, then you begin the Left Hand Path at the Anahata. We will continue next week with a discussion of the specifics of Kundalini Right Hand Path yoga within the Muladhara.