# rtt lecture - Yoga Nidra Ancient Magic Satyananda Yoga

Tonight's talk is going to focus on the traditional foundations of Yoga Nidra, its development throughout time, and its use by Satyananda as a contemporary tool of yogic hypnosis or Tantric hypnosis. So what is Yoga Nidra? Well, if we're thinking about Yoga Nidra in terms of its use in contemporary yogic practice, what we are primarily referring to is a meditative technique developed by Sri Swami Satyananda Saraswati, who is one of my gurus. He established Satchananda Yoga in the Bihar school. Now, Satyananda's approach to Yoga Nidra was very revolutionary. Essentially, what he did was he took ancient practices and he integrated them into the existing stream of hypnotic techniques in modern psychology. So Satchananda is a good example of a Tantric who recognized that tantra itself is an evolutionary system. It can change over time. And so when we practice Tantra, we should not be afraid to embrace modern thought or modern systems. We should be free in our practice to integrate aspects of modern medicine, modern psychiatry, modern science of any type. Because even though these schools do not provide the type of holistic approach that is offered by Tantra, this doesn't mean that individuals within these schools haven't made major advancements that we can take advantage of in our own practice. And in fact, advancements in a field like psychology, many of these advancements were based upon a root in the ancient world. Even if modern psychologists are unaware of the significant influence that the ancients have had on their practices, the influence is there. Just take, for example, Jungian psychology, which is heavily rooted in a recognition of ancient tradition, specifically Aryan tradition. So just because Jung or just because Freud or any of these other psychologists did not understand the depth of the influence of the ancients or the depth of Tantra or European magic, this doesn't mean that we should just abandon all their work. And Satyananda, as I said, recognized this fact. So he embraced advancements in the use of hypnosis as a means of treating serious mental, what they call mental illness in the field of modern psychology. Now, Satyananda, Yoga Nidra, very powerful practice, very important practice. But this is not the only form of Yoga Nidra. And Yoga Nidra itself is a very ancient practice that goes all the way back, at least in written history, to the Mahabharata. Yoga Nidra in its essential form is a type of sleep magic, dream magic. And so when we examine the history of Yoga Nidra, we have to recognize that this is explicitly a magical tradition. Even if Satchananda emphasized the role of modern psychology in the development of his methods in Yoga Nidra, I ultimately, hypnosis itself, as it is applied in the field of psychology, is a form of magic. Yoga nidra, as it is applied in our contemporary environment, is a form of magic. Now let's go back to the foundation of this magical practice and uncover some of the occulted secrets of Yoga nidra. The Mahabharata, the ancient Aryan epic, the longest epic in the ancient world, describes Yoga nidra and as a state of sleep that is experienced by Vishnu between the cycles of the Yuga. So we have the four Yugas. And there is a transitionary phase between these Yugas. And it is within the transitionary phase that Vishnu sleeps. And as he sleeps, he's experiencing a state of consciousness that is labeled Yoga nidra. But this is not only a state of consciousness. This is also a ritual, a yogic ritual that allows for access of super consciousness, or what we call fourth state consciousness, also known as traya. Now, within the Mahabharata, Toraya is not discussed. In this sense, the magical aspect of Yoga Nidra is occulted. It's occulted in the mythology. If we understand the nature of the Yuga cycle, the fact that the Yugas represent change and the manifestation of potentiality, we can begin to recognize the role of sleep and of dreams in establishing the foundation for this transformative process. Dreams occur in a space that exists between the Vishuddhi and the Ajna. In Tantric astrology, which is a field that we are now making advancements in, we have ranked the signs of the zodiac in accordance with the chakras, and in between a pure expression of the Vishudi at Library and a pure expression of the Ajna in Pisces, we have Gemini. Now the sign of Gemini occupies dream space. If you think about the nature of the twins, this is an occulted aspect of Gemini. We have the physical body and we have the subtle body. And the subtle body interacts with the mind in dream space. And this is the twins. We are all, each one of us, we are all twins. We have our material body and our spirit body. And when you navigate dream space, which you can do willfully through certain yogic practices that induce lucid dreaming, when you navigate this space, which is represented by Gemini, you have left your awareness, I should say, has left your material body and has entered your twin, your dream body, your subtle body, your spirit body. And in this space, the grounding of your awareness in maneuvering your body is no longer in the Muladhara in the physical body. It is now in the Vishudi, in your mind, which is the grounding point of your subtle body. Now, the grounding point of your subtle body provides you with the necessary logical framework in order to have a skeletal system that is subtle, that mirrors the physical body, but is nonetheless conceptual in nature. It's contemplative. And so there are certain changes that can be made to this spirit body within dream space, certain manipulations, such as the inhabiting of a body that you operate as if it is your own, but it takes on a new appearance, a new shape, a new form. How can this occur? How can you enter into a new shape when you're in dream space? Well, as I said, we are in conceptual space. Within our dreams and being within conceptual space, there is the aspect of imagination, which is part of the mind. And what you form is manifested by spirit. Now, manifestation can take multiple forms. You can manifest things in the material. So, for example, if I choose to create something using my body, using physical materials, I am making something new. I'm utilizing blood prana. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean that I'm utilizing the actual substance of blood, but any sort of raw material, physical material, is a form of blood prana, such as stone, wood, grass, anything of a material substance. So I'm taking that prana and I'm shaping it into something new. This is a form of manifestation. The same thing occurs in your mind, but the prana that you are utilizing in order to achieve this is spiritual prana. So this is. Excuse me, this is prana drawn from the spirit world, Subtle prana. And it does carry a cost. Just as there is a cost to utilizing raw physical materials, there is a cost as well to accessing the spirit. You can exhaust the spirit. Yes, you can gain access to a deeper well of spirit that you can draw from, but that's really dependent upon your skills as a yogin. The more you dig into subtle space, the deeper the well and the more spiritual prana you have to draw from. And that is why yogins, magicians, are able to improve their abilities in things like lucid dreaming, astral projection, telekinesis, practices that are outside of the mundane. Because these yogins are able to draw from the waters of the spirit in ways that other people cannot. And one of the methods for digging deeper into subtle space is to enter that fourth state consciousness known as traya, through the practice of yoga nidra. So we have in the Mahabharata an example of Vishnu as one of the great powers of manifestation in the cosmos. Utilizing this form of ritual magic in order to continue the wheel of the Yuga cycle, intense powers of manifestation. Now, yoga nidra continues to be discussed in the literature of Aryan India. We have within the Puranas, the discussion of Krishna utilizing yoga nidra as a magical practice. Of course, Krishna, he's an incarnation of Vishnu. And in the Devi Mahatmya, we have the introduction in the mythology of the goddess yoga nidra. Now, what I am specifically referring to is a manifestation of Shakti by the name of Yoga Nidra. And she manifests when Brahma is under threat by the Asuras, Madhu and Kaitaba. And when she manifests, she erupts from the eyes of Lord Vishnu. And when this occurs, Vishnu wakes up. He's in a deep sleep. And Brahma, under the assault of the Asura, required his aid. So he called upon this goddess, this form of shakti, and she invigorates Vishnu. And when he is awoken, he is awoken with great purpose. And he kills the Asura, he cuts off their heads. So what is described here is the intense power that is gained through the integration of the physical aspect of yoga nidra in the muladhara, the manifestation in contemplation that we find in the Vishuddhi. Very interestingly, yoga nidra, the goddess, is associated with the quality Tamas, which is associated with the Muladhara and the svada sthana. So what is it? Why is this goddess who is associated with sleep, who erupts from the eyes of Vishnu, why is she also associated with those things that are tamasic? Well, this leads me to a discussion of one of the primary aspects of Satchananda, Yoga nidra, which is connection to the body, the physical body. So in Satyananda's method of yoga nidra, you draw your awareness to certain points on the body, and you utilize the sensuous aspect of the Svadhisthana in order to hone in on the feeling, the physical feeling that you experience in the body. And this allows for a detachment from the mind. Now, this detachment from the mind, when combined with guided meditation or tantric hypnosis, leads to a grounding that provides a foundation for the access of Torah. And it's within this fourth state consciousness that you can begin to program the body in order to respond in a specific way to certain stimuli or in order to achieve deeper states of meditation. And that's what's described in this myth. The goddess Yoga nidra, she represents the grounding force of being able to connect to the body so that you may enter into a state where you may be effectively hypnotized. Now, hypnosis in this sense, this does not mean that if you are hypnotized, it does not mean that you have a weak mind. In fact, it's really the opposite. If you have the ability to allow yourself to be hypnotized, this means that you have conquered some of the attachments in the mind that may interfere with the process of hypnosis. And one of the means of achieving this release of attachments to the mind is by connecting with body consciousness. So the goddess Yoga Nidra really represents the use of the body in conquering those attachments in the mind so that you can utilize the mind more effectively. And in utilizing the mind in this manner, you are able to empower yourself. When Vishnu wakes up from his sleep, he has been empowered by the ritual of Yoga Nidra. He has been empowered by the goddess Yoga Nidra, and he is able to go to war effectively. Now, Yoga Nidra is continuously discussed throughout the tantras. We're talking about the tantric literature, the tantras as a state that is both yoga and sleep simultaneously. Now, what does that mean? Well, yoga means unification, union, magic, and sleep. We know what sleep is, hopefully. So when you combine yoga with sleep, what do you get? Well, you get a practice of intentional sleep. Sleep is used as a magic ritual, it's used as a magic device. And sleep is utilized as a means of accessing yoga, or union. Of course, union means different things depending upon the context of your yogic practice. If you're utilizing sleep in order to reach transcendence on the right hand path, then that's one form of Yoga Nidra. But there's other forms of yogic sleep as well, such as utilizing sleep as a way to access subtle space so that you may commune with entities outside of the present dimension of consciousness. Or you can utilize Yoga Nidra in order to address mental health issues, address emotional issues, address physical health issues, just as you would with hypnosis. Although, of course, what makes this yogic is the fact that the use of the hypnotic method is holistic. So we're recognizing all of the elements of the self, not just the mind and the body, in our application of hypnosis. Now, interestingly, the Sambhavi Mudra is discussed within the tantras and as a way to enter into a state of Yoga Nidra. Now, the Sambhavi Mudra is a method of meditative gazing. So we're utilizing the eyes in this meditative exercise where you sit in a meditative asana and you allow your eyes to half close and you drift into a state of unfocus. You are not focusing on anything that surrounds you. You're just allowing all of the external stimuli to be. You are not intervening and you're sitting completely still. Natural breath, total relaxation. In this state, you can begin to enter into Toraya. Now, for some people, this might take a very long time. For some people, they might not be able to enter into Toraya through this mudra. But if you've been practicing meditative exercises for a long time, if you've been practicing Yoga Nidra for a long time, most certainly I can go into the Sambhavi mudra right now and I can immediately enter Teraya immediately. I feel the difference. And when you're in that state, that is when you have a much deeper access to subtle space, or you can go the other direction and you can have much deeper access to natural space. It all depends upon the direction of your awareness in the practice. So the tantras also describe Toraya as being certainly accessible with Yoga nidra. So we're talking about centuries of practice, maybe even longer, maybe thousands of years of practice leading to the formation of Yoga Nidra. And the idea within the tantras is that if you're in a rested position, Shavasana is not mentioned in the earlier tantras, but posture similar to Shavasana, where you're laying on your back in relaxation, these are mentioned. And the idea is that if you can achieve this deep relaxation, combining grounded elements in the body and in the mind with the sensuous aspects in the Svadhisthana and the Ajna, and then the creative aspect in the Manipura and the connective aspect in the Sahasra. This is a holistic approach, applying the will and the anahata. You will reach this state of Yoga nidra. And in this state of Yoga nidra, this is how you begin to develop the fourth state consciousness, which by the way, is also the foundation of Sat than, or becoming like God. Now that we've described the ancient practice, let's go ahead and talk about Satyananda's specific method in Yoga Nidra. So Satyananda developed his methods in Yoga nidra in the mid-1970s, and he may or may not have been influenced by European practices in France. Concerning the application of yoga in hypnosis, Satchananda was not very clear about where he derived his practice. He did mention that much of what he developed was informed by ancient texts. So we can assume, since Satchananda was a Tantric master, that he had Awareness to some degree of the depth of the Yoga Nidra practice in the Tantras and in earlier texts. But of course, we don't know the exact foundation of his theories in Yoga Nidra. However, what we do have is a pretty extensive record of Satyananda's work with Yoga Nidra. Now, Satyananda was highly experimental in his practice and this is a good thing because he advanced Tantra quite a bit into our contemporary age. He was a great influence on me and I consider him one of my gurus. I even considered taking initiation into Satyananda Yoga, but I had too many disagreements with the general projection of the methods and the overall spiritual nature of the practice. Being oriented towards transcendence alone and not really representing an effective left hand path approach. Nonetheless, I recognize the value in what Satchananda had to offer and continues to offer in his legacy, just as Satyananda recognized the value in modern psychology, even if he did not agree with their conclusions. So Satyananda was certainly influenced by modern psychological techniques in hypnosis, and he framed a lot of his experimentation in Yoga Nidra around methods that were utilized in psychology. One of his goals was to address behavioral problems, mental health issues, physical health issues. But his initial experiments into Yoga Nidra dealt with teaching. Now, Satyananda discovered that through the use of Yoga Nidra, he could bring his students into fourth state consciousness. And when they reach fourth state consciousness, he could read to them. He could read to them in foreign languages. He could read to them from very difficult passages in texts like the Mahabharata. And over time, he was surprised to discover that when he read to his students in the fourth state consciousness, while under the influence of Yoga Nidra, these students were able to retain this information. And he was able to very quickly teach foreign language to young students. I'm talking children. He was able to teach his students how to recite long passages from Indian epics through Yoga Nidra. Why is that? Well, this deals with the hypnagogic state, which Satyananda called the Hypna yogic state, and the great improvement in the capacity for retaining information when you're in this state. So the idea behind Yoga Nidra and the Satyananda method is to bring the student to the brink of sleep without actually inducing sleep. And when you reach this state, right on the verge of sleep, between the deep sleep state, between the waking state, between the dream state in Teraya, which is the dot on the top of the om symbol in Sanskrit, when you reach this state, this is when you have elevated consciousness. This is when you're in the fourth state, beyond Maya, breaking through the illusory things. And when you're in this state, you are able to access greater capacity, not just within your mind and your ability to retain information, but also within your body. And over time, this state can be honed to the point where you can operate from toraya or have elements of Torah, or fourth state consciousness consistently in your waking state, not just when you're on the verge of sleep. So Satyananda was very successful in these experiments, and he started to develop yoga nidra as a method for dealing with a lot of the health issues that psychiatrists, professional hypnotists, had been working with with some success. But he believed that taking a yogic approach would be more effective. And I'm telling you that it is. If the yogin knows what they're doing, if they're able to utilize yoga nidra effectively, if they have the natural skill for it, then it is a far more effective practice than modern hypnosis because of the holistic nature of it. So let's talk about the core method that Satchananda used, the reasoning behind it, and then I'm going to discuss my development, my contributions to Yoga nidra, and how we can utilize this method in our own practice. So there are multiple steps to the Satyananda method, and I'm going to go through them from the beginning to the end of a typical practice. So in a typical practice, we would have the preparatory stage. And in preparation, Satchananda preferred that the student would enter into savasana. Shavasana is a very good posture for Yoga nidra, because when you're in shavasana, you can utilize a specific technique where you begin to feel that your entire body is dissolving into the earth or the ground or whatever surface you're laying upon. This is really easy to do when you're laying down because you're not having to support yourself physically. So you can give yourself entirely to the passive state that you need to enter into in order to achieve that really deep meditation in Yoga nidra. So typically we would utilize shavasana. That's what Satchananda would utilize. Now, there's other techniques you can utilize as well. You can practice yoga nidra sitting in a chair, sitting in a meditative asana, even standing up. But the position of the body is important. It should be considered because the position of the body is going to influence the experience. Next, we have the resolve. So this is the sankalpa. The sankalpa is a Sanskrit word which basically Means intention. Okay, now this is very interesting because this breaks a bit from some of the Tantric literature, ancient Tantric literature. And this is where Satyananda recognized the deeper occulted aspects of the literature and represented it effectively in practice. So the senkalpa is a statement that you would make a thought and intention at the beginning of the practice that you would utilize in order to shape your experience. Now, in the ancient literature, it's typically stated that senkalpa is something that should be avoided. You should not draw your awareness to any sort of intention in your practice, because if you do this, it can become distraction. But in Satyananda's system, he recognized that, yes, while intention can become a distraction for developing the basics of a meditative state, you can take even the most basic initiate, you can take a random person off the street, and if you have the necessary skill, you can get them to a state of meditation where their mind is not going to be a problem because they are so relaxed, so rooted in the body, that the mind has nothing to say about the experience. And therefore, sankalpa can be utilized effectively in order to achieve many goals. For example, let's say someone wanted to quit smoking cigarettes. They could set an intention in their senkalpa. They could say, I am going to, as a result of this meditative exercise, stop smoking cigarettes. And in setting this intention, this creates a platform for the yogin to work with, for the hypnotist to work with, in order to draw in the necessary influence to ensure that that intention is made real. Now, how does this occur? How do we make sure that the initiate, the student, is going to have the type of experience that allows their intention to come to fruition? Well, Satyananda recommended the rotation of awareness. The rotation of awareness is something that requires awareness of the body. And this is derived from the goddess yoga nidra. Now, Satyananda did not make reference to this goddess in describing this practice, but within the tradition, within the perennial nature of this tradition. This is where we find the role of the tamasic element in establishing the foundation for a meditative state, a hypnotic state. Because when you are practicing hypnosis of any sort, it's important to create a physically relaxing environment. Hypnosis in modern psychology has emphasized the mind, but there is some aspect of the body that is included in the theory. In Tantra yoga, the body plays a much more significant role. So with Satyananda's method of yoga nidra, you will spend long periods of time bringing the students awareness to the body, to the physical element, to the Blood body. And so what occurs is over time, as you're rotating your awareness from your foot to your leg, to your hand, to whatever part of your body, you are beginning to see your body as an anchor in the same way that we would see the candle, flame on a candle as an anchoring point for meditative exercise in trataka and the physical sensuous. The tamasic element of this practice is what makes it so powerful, because what you are doing is you are drawing awareness away from the mind. So if we're not placing our awareness on the mind and we are entering into this state of deep relaxation in the body, whoever is directing the hypnosis is able to then access the mind and do what is necessary in order to achieve a given end. So this is based upon a much more ancient practice called Nyasa NASA is form of mantra yoga, where mantras are placed on specific parts of the body. And this is a rotational awareness exercise. We see this mantra corresponding to this specific prana is placed on this part of the body, and that's supposed to achieve some type of goal. And by bringing our awareness to that mantra and that segment of the body, we can begin to manipulate the chronic channels of the body and overcome aspects of the mind that may interfere with our practice with the meditative state. Conquering the mind through the body is a very important aspect of Satyananda's yoga Nidra. There's also the pranayama aspect, which is very simple in Satyananda's method. And that is simply bringing awareness to the breath. That's it, just natural flow of the breath. Sometimes breathing exercises are integrated, but usually not. Usually you're just bringing your awareness to the natural flow of the breath. And this is just another component of relaxation that Satyananda liked to utilize in his practice. Then we have the sensation elements. So like I said, you're bringing your awareness to different points of the body. In doing so, you are accessing body consciousness, body awareness in the muladhara. So the most basic connection to the body. But when we integrate the Svadistana element of tamas, what we're doing is we're increasing the intensity of the experience. So now we say, for example, bring your awareness to your left foot. Your left foot is becoming very heavy. Feel all of the subtle sensations on your left foot. Focus on those subtle sensations. Your left foot is becoming even heavier. It is falling through the earth. So this kind of experience, feeling the subtle sensation in the body, this deepens connection to that tamasic element, which is important because as you are starting to relax and enter into that fourth state consciousness, you're beginning to move from a grounded point in your mind to a subtle point near the Ajna. And so you need a counterbalance to this. The counterbalance to the vishudi aspect in this practice is the muladhara. So basically what we're saying is the counter aspect to your mentalization, your intellectualization of the experience, is the blood body, the physical body. So we need to have a counterbalance. When you begin to move in the subtle space, what is the counterbalance to the ajna? It's the svadhisthana. Applying the principle of counterbalance, we move to the svada sthana and develop sensation. Now, the way I'm describing this is not the way Satchananda described this. I am applying advancements that we have made in this school in rooted consciousness to assess what Satyananda was doing. Satyananda, obviously he did not have access to the system of rooted consciousness because that's something that has been developed after his passing. So when I'm describing the counterbalance method, this is not something that you'll find in the literature of satya nanda yoga. But it is important to understand because that is what is occurring. We are balancing the ajna element with the svadasthana element, the vishuddhi element with the muladhara element. And then ultimately we're trying to balance the sahasra element with the manipura element. Now, this occurs in a very, very subtle way, in very deep practice with the narrative that is applied or the visualization, the imagery. And that's the next step, is the formation of imagery. So Satyananda would tell a story. He would tell a story to his students while they were in this hypnotic state. And the story would include elements, occulted elements, very deep word magic, very deep body magic, very deep physical body magic, I should say resonance keeping, a rhythm keeping, openness and flexibility as well to respond to the cues that were given by the student, the initiate. Now, this is what makes Yoga nidra so difficult to perform. You have to have an awareness of the body of the initiate. And that's every part of the body, including the physical body, the emotional state, the mind, the spirit, all things. You have to have a read on this because barriers can develop at each point of the body to prevent the yogin from achieving their goal in guiding Yoga nidra. When I practice Yoga nidra, I visualize, and this is just something that comes to me. It's not something I willfully bring to mind, but I See a cobra, A cobra that dances and is always threatening to strike. If the cobra strikes, there will be a break in the practice and I will lose the intensity of my connection to the initiate. If, if I'm able to navigate the movements of the cobra in this dance in subtle space and in the natural space, I will be able to follow the movement of prana in the body and influence the initiate to have the response that we are seeking. So developing a story that you tell as part of the Yoga Nidra requires awareness of the occulted aspect of what you are speaking upon, the ability to draw from spirit. We are sometimes integrating deity work in Yoga Nidra, so connecting, for example, shakti to the experience in order to increase feelings in the body. This is one of the methods that we can apply in Yoga Nidra. And it requires you to have access to those channels and also to be able to create distance between yourself and the initiate. Because you yourself, if you're practicing Yoga Nidra, you can hypnotize yourself. And this is something that, you know, hypnotists have struggled with for a long time, is if you're creating such an intense hypnotic environment, how do you keep yourself from being hypnotized? Well, it's a skill that you have to develop over time. And crafting the imagery, the story that you're telling in such a way that you can control the movement of prana is incredibly important to protect yourself from any sort of blowback in the Yoga nidra practice. Now, after this, we have the conclusion. The conclusion of the exercise is simply just a repetition of the Sankalpa, the intention, and then we have a close of the method. So that's Satyananda's method. He used it for many years. Still very popular, very effective. Now, my methods in Yoga Nidra, I have expanded this quite a bit and I've done a lot of experimentation with Yoga Nidra. Notably, we won't get into all the experimentation that I've done, but notably I've developed a method in Yoga Nidra that is a chakra consciousness, Yoga Nidra, which allows for rootedness in a specific chakra. Now, most of you have experienced this. What we do is we utilize occulted language, connecting with specific pranic channels in spirit, inner fire and the body, utilizing the necessary rhythm and preparatory work in order to bring someone into a rooted state that is either their home state or, or another state. So that you can experience altered states of consciousness through meditative work. This type of meditative work has not been conducted in written history until now. This is an advancement in Yoga Nidra. So through this method, let's say you're rooted in the body and in the muladhara, in the physical body. You can utilize a meditative technique in order to shift your consciousness to, let's say, the Manipura or the Anahata or the Svadhisthana. And in doing so, you can experience what it is like to exist from that rooted state, basically seeing the world through another person's eyes, walking the streets in another person's shoes. You can do this through this meditative exercise. And this is made possible by the foundational practices that I learned from Satyananda. I took his method and I expanded upon it. And I utilized my understanding of the nature of consciousness and the chakras in order to develop new methods in Yoga Nidra, in order to develop new techniques in expanding the power of the practice and the potential of the practice. And this is not the end. There is more work to be done in this area, far more experimentation. Yoga Nidra is incredibly powerful. You can achieve many great things through this practice. And this is not the last time that I will be speaking about Yoga Nidra. This is a very important practice for the future, for the future of this school, but also for the future of yoga in general. And so there's a lot more to say about it.